BRIGHAM v. COFFIN.
Statement of the Case.

BRIGHAM v. COFFIN.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF

THE UNITED

STATES

FOR

THE DISTRICT OF MASSACHUSETTS.
No. 251. Argued and submitted April 24,1893. -Decided

May 10,1893.

Letters patent No. 283,057, issued August 14, 1883, to :Frank E. Aldrich for
an improvement in rubber cloths or fabrics, are void for want of novelty.

THIS was a bill in equity for the infringement of letters
patent No. 283,057, issued August 14, 1883, to Frank E.
Aldrich, for an improvement in rubber cloths or fabrics.
The patentee stated in his specification
"My invention relates more especially to means for ornamenting the cloth or fabric, and it consists in a rubber cloth
or fabric composed wholly or in part of rubber, having one or
both of its surfaces provided with useful or ornamental designs or figures printed or stamped thereon with an ink or
compound of a different color or shade from the body of the
fabric by means of rollers, blocks, or in any other suitable
manner, the ink or compound preferably containing rubber,
caoutchouc, gutta-percha, or some analogous material, as hereinafter more fully set forth and claimed.
"In carrying out my invention I take an ordinary rubber
cloth, preferably gossamer rubber cloth, or any fabric composed wholly or in part of rubber, and print or stamp its
finished surface or surfaces with an ink or compound of a different color or shade from the body of the goods by means of
engraved rollers, blocks, types, dies, or in any other suitable
manner. I deem it preferable, however, to use rollers, one or
more being employed, according to the number of colors to be
applied, and the cloth passed in cuts through the printingmachine after the manner of printing calico and similar goods.
"The ink or compound employed in printing the figures or
designs on the cloth or fabric is prepared as follows Take
one-half pound of rubber or caoutchouc, four quarts of naphtha,

OCTOBER' TERM, 1892.
Statement of the Case.

one-half pound of red lead, and one-eighth of an ounce ot
flowers of sulphur. Dissolve the gum in the naphtha, and then
add and thoroughly mix the other ingredients therewith.
"I do not confine myself to the exact proportions given, as
these may be varied considerably without materially changing
the nature of the compound, and, instead of naphtha, some
other solvent may be used for the rubber, if desired, although
naphtha is deemed preferable, also, instead of the lead, litharge, pigments, shellac, ocher, lamp-black, or any other coloring matter may be employed, according to the shade or color
it is desired to give the ink.
*

*

*

*

*

"As I propose to make the ink or printing compound described the subject matter of other letters patent, the same is
not herein claimed when in and of itself considered."
His claims were as follows
"1. As an improved article of manufacture, a rubber cloth
or fabric composed wholly or in part of rubber, having one or
both of its surfaces printed or stamped with useful or ornamental designs or figures in an ink or printing compound of a
different color or shade from the body of the cloth or fabric,
substantially as set forth."
The second claim was like the first, except that the ink or
compound is described as being "composed in part of rubber,
caoutchouc, gutta-percha, or some analogous substance, and a
coloring material or materials, substantially as specified."
The third claim was like the second, except that instead of
the words "and a coloring material or materials" there is substituted "and containing sulphur or an ingredient for rendering the ink vulcanizable."
The fourth claim was like the first, except that the cloth or
fabric is described as "varnished."
The fifth clain was also like the first, except that the ink
or printing compound is described as "analogous to the coating of the cloth or body of the fabric, and of a different color
or shade therefrom."
The sixth claim was also like the first, except that the ink
or compound was described as "containing rubber and sulphur,

BRIGHAM v. COFFIN.
Opinion of the Court.

or an ingredient for vulcamzmg the rubber when subjected to
heat or the sun's rays."
The seventh claim was like the sixth, except that the words
"the sun's rays" were omitted.
The answer denied that Aldrich was the inventor of any
material or substantial part of the thing patented, and gave
notice of prior patents, denied that the Aldrich patent
described anything of value or importance, averred that it
was practically worthless, denied that the invention was any
advance upon the art of making rubber fabrics, or that such
fabrics had ever been practically manufactured as described in
the patent. The answer also denied infringement.
On a hearing upon pleadings and proofs in the court below
the bill was dismissed, (3T Fed. Rep. 688,) and the plaintiff
appealed.
. r Thomas William Clarke for appellant.
.Mr T .E..Maynadier,for appellees, submitted on his brief.
MR. JusTiCE BRowN, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.
The bill was dismissed by the court below upon the ground
that there was nothing novel in an article of manufacture
which consisted in printing ornamental figures upon a rubber
fabric with a colored ink composed in part of rubber.
The patent in question covers as an article of manufacture
1. A rubber cloth or fabric, which must be composed wholly
or in part of rubber.
2. One or both of the surfaces of such fabric must be
printed or stamped with designs in an ink or printing compound of a different color or shade from the body of the
fabric.
In these particulars all the claims agree. The last six claims
differ from the first only in describing the ink or compound,
either as composed of rubber, caoutchouc, gutta-percha., or
some analogous substance, or, in addition thereto, as contain-

OCTOBER TERI, 1892.
Opinon of the Court.

ing sulphur or other substance for rendering the ink vuloanizable, when subjected to heat or the sun's rays.
At the same time, while giving the composition of the ink,
the patentee expressly declares that he does not claim the
same in and of itself considered, because he proposed to make
such ink or printing compound the subject of another patent.
The case then reduces itself to the single question whether
there is any novelty in printing or stamping a rubber cloth
with designs in an ink of a different color or shade. The
prior patents put in evidence show very clearly that there is
no novelty in printing or stamping upon a rubber fabric
designs of various patterns.
In the patent of December 14, 1875, to Dunbar and
Lothrop for improvement in the manufacture of floor cloths,
the invention consists "of a product composed of a base or
foundation of cheap compound of rubber, overlaid or inlaid
with a series of strips, figures, or characters of a thin and more
expensive material, which is capable of receiving any desired
color or tint, these strips or figures being, in the final stage of
the vulcanizing process, embedded in the foundation, so that
a uniformly even surface exists over the whole." The claim
of this patent is for "a floor cloth composed of a body of
cheap material, with a series of parallel strips in colors or
neutral tints composed of a finer quality of rubber compound,
substantially as and for the purposes stated."
In the later patent of March 30, 1880, to Brigham and
others, the object of the invention was stated to be "to produce a light, thin, waterproof fabric for dress and similar
goods ornamented with figures and colors to resemble ordinary
dress and similar goods which are not of the waterproof class."
The invention consisted "of a light, thin fabric, woven or
otherwise formed, covered with a waterproofing of rubber composition, or a composition in all respects equivalent thereto,
printed with ornamental colors and figures (embossed or plain)
to resemble ordinary dress or similar goods." The composition described in the patent "is spread upon the cloth in the
manner well known in the art, and forms a basis for receiving
the colors and holding them in sharp, clear lines without

BRIGHAM v. COFFIN.
Opinion of the Court.

running or blurring, and so as to make well-defined and ornaThe product is a desirable imitation
mental figures.
of figured goods in ordinary colors, and having what may be
and all the colors and beauty
called a ' cloth surface,'
of appearance of such ordinary dress and similar goods, with
the valuable quality, in addition, of capacity- to resist or repel
moisture." The claim was for "a waterproof fabric for dress
and other goods, having a surface of the described waterproof
composition, and impressed with figures and colors, as set
forth."
It is difficult to see wherein the invention of Aldrich differed
in any important or patentable feature from these prior devices. Aldrich may be entitled to a patent for his composition,
but the patent in question is not for a rubber fabric printed or
stamped with designs m any particular ink or compound, but
in any ink composed in whole or in part of rubber, etc., with
or without sulphur or other vulcanizing material. While the
patent is for a manufacture or product, it is for a product
resulting from a specified process of printing or stamping in
an ink of this general description. The composition used by
Brigham is described as made up of ten pounds of indiarubber in its natural condition and thirty pounds of whiting
as a basis. For black goods, lamp-black is added, for white
goods, two pounds of zinc-white, for a red. color, vermilion
is used, and for other colors, other mineral pigments. But in
all cases the rubber and whiting constitute the bulk of the
mass, though other known equivalents for rubber may be
used, and the ingredients are ground together and then dissolved in benzine.
The ink or compound of Aldrich is composed of different
ingredients, of which, however, rubber and naphtha appear to
constitute the basis, and the alleged patentable feature consists in printing or stamping ornamental designs with this
compound upon a rubber cloth or fabric. There does not
seem to be any essential difference in the two patents, the
main difference being in the composition used by Aldrich,
whichis -not made the subject of his patent. If, as is claimed
by the plaintiff, the invention of Brigham was a practical
VOL. CXLi-6

