ABADIE v. UNITED STATES.
Names of Counsel.

desires the instruction of this court for their proper decision is
irregular when a quorum of its members does not sit in the
case, (United States v Emholt, 105 U. S. 414,) and that this
certificate does not comply with rule thirty-seven of this
court, inasmuch as it does not contain a proper statement of
the facts on which the questions or propositions of law arise.
While we have the power to require the whole record and
cause to be sent up to us for consideration and decision, the
sixth section of the Judiciary Act of March 3, 1891, does not
contemplate that questions or propositions of law shall be propounded and the entire record thereupon transmitted for us
to answer such questions or propositions in view thereof.
It is for us, when questions or propositions are certified,
accompanied by a proper statement of the facts on which they
arise, to determine whether we will answer them as propounded or direct the whole record to be placed before us in
order to decide the matter in controversy in the same manner
as if the case had been brought up by writ of error or appeal.
We must decline, therefore, to answer the questions contained in this certificate, and order the case to be
.Dsm'ised.

ABADIE v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES

FOR

THE NORTHERN DiSTRICT OF CAjIfFORNIA.
No. 260. Submitted April 24, 1893. -Decided

May 1, 1893.

On the authority of Cameron v. United States, 146 U. S. 533, this case Is
dismissed because it does not appear that the jurisdictional amount is
involved.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
YrA James H7ewrimann for appellant.
MX'

Asszstant Attorney General faury for appellees.

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.
JUtSTiE This is an appeal from a decree of the
Court
of the United States for the Northern District
Circuit
THE CfiEF

of California in a proceeding under the act of Congress of
February 25, 1885, entitled "An act to prevent unlawful
occupancy of the public lands," 23 Stat. 321, c. 149, whereby
appellant was directed to remove a fence and enclosure from
certain sections of land therein described, in default of which
it was decreed that the same should be destroyed by the
marshal for said district. The value of the fence was claimed
to exceed $5000, but the fence was not the matter in dispute,
nor was the appellant deprived thereof. For want of the
jurisdictional amount, Cameron v United States, 146 U S.
533, the appeal must be
D) srzssed.

UNITED STATES v. JONES.
EiROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
WESTERN DISTRICT OF LOUISIANA.
No. 262. Submitted April 24, 1893.-Decided May 1, 1893.

A bill of exceptions signed after the final adjournment of the court for the
term, without an order extending the time for its presentation, or the
consent of parties thereto, or a standing rule authorizing it to be done,

is improvidently allowed, and when the errors assigned arise upon the
bill, the judgment will be affirmed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Afr Asststant Attorney General Parker for plaintiffs in
error.

.Xr I' Alexander and _Mr H C. Blanckalrd for defendants
inerror
Judgment was rendered in this case
18,
the
writ
of
error
sued out and allowed July 23, and
July
the court adjourned for the term, July 30, 1889. So far as
THE CmEF JUSTICE

