OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Statement of the Case.

government out of any lands within those boundaries. It was
for the government itself to prescribe the limits from which
the quantity granted by the Mexican government should be
selected, and having reserved sufficient from the exterior
boundaries to satisfy that amount it was perfectly competent
for it to grant any surplus remaining, and it appears from
the actual survey of the specific quantity granted by Mexico
that the Congressional grant to the railroad company was
outside of any of the land thus appropriated.
It follows that the judgment of the Supreme Court must
be
Reversed and the cause remandedforfJurtherproceedingsin
accordancewdth the mtews expressed m ths opinzon.

CURTNER v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE

UNITED STATES

FOR

THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA.
No. 253. Argued April 24, 25, 1893.- Decided May 15,1893.
When, in a suit in equity brought by the United States to set aside and
cancel patents of public land issued by the Land Department, no fraud
being charged, it appears that the suit is brought for the benefit of
private persons and that the government has no interest in,the result,
the United States are barred from bringing the suit if the persons for
whose benefit the suit is brought would be barred.
When a land-grant railroad company conveys a part of its grant without
having received a patent from the United States, and it appears that the
United States had issued a patent of the tract to a State, as part of a
land grant to the State, and the State parts with its title to an individual,
the relative rights of the parties can be determined by proceedings in the
courts on behalf of the grantees of the company, against the grantees
of the State.

THIS was a bill in equity filed by the United States in the
Circuit Court of the United States for the Northern District
of California, July 23, 1883, against Henry Curtner and others,

CURTNER v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

patentees of the State of California, for the purpose of having
certain listings of indemnity school lands, situated in that
State in township three south, range three east, and in township two south, range one east, set aside and cancelled and
the lands decreed to be held subject to the grant made for
the purpose of aiding the construction of the Pacific Railroad,
as provided m the acts of Congress of July 1, 1862, and July
2, 1864.
The bill was demurred to and amended, and to the amended
bill a demurrer was interposed, which was overruled, Judge
Sawyer delivering an opinion. 11 Sawyer, 411.
The bill averred that on July 1, 1862, Congress passed an
act by which the Union Pacific Railroad Company was mcorporated for the purpose of constructing a railroad and telegraph
line from the Missouri River to the Pacific Ocean, and by
which it was provided that "there be, and is hereby, granted to
the said company, for the purpose of aiding in the construction
of said railroad
every alternate section of public
land, designated by odd numbers, to the amount of five alternate sections per mile on each side of said railroad, on the
line thereof, and -within the limits of ten miles on each side
of said road, not soldv reserved, or otherwise disposed of by
the United States, and to which a preemption or homestead
claim may not have attached, at the time the line of said road
is definitely fixed.
And all such lands, so granted
by this section, which shall not be sold or disposed of by said
company, within three years after the entire road shall have
been completed, shall be subject to settlement and predmption,
like other lands, at a price not exceeding one dollar and
twenty-five cents per acre, to be paid to said company," 12
Stat. 489, 492, c. 120, that the Central Pacific Railroad Company of California was, by the act, declared entitled to the
benefit of this land grant, on the same terms and conditions
as the Union Pacific Railroad Company, that on October 31,
1864, the Central Pacific Railroad Company of California
assigned to the Western Pacific Railroad Company the right
to earn the land grant along and through the location where
the land in controversy is situated, and that this assignment

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Statement of the Case.

was ratified by act of Congress of March 3, 1865. 13 Stat.
504, c. 89.
It was further alleged that, by the act of July 1, 1862, the
railroad company seeking the benefit of the grant therein
provided for, was required, within two years after its passage,
to file a map of its general route in the Department of the
Interior, and thereupon the Secretary of that department
should cause the lands within fifteen miles of such general
route to be withdrawn from preemption, private entry, and
sale, that when any portion of said route was finally located,
the Secretary of the Interior should cause the said lands so
granted to be surveyed and set off as fast as might be necessary for the purposes therein named, 12 Stat. 493, and that,
by the act of July 2, 1864, the time for filing the general
route map was extended to July 1, 1865. 13 Stat. 356, c. 216.
By this act the fifteen-mile limit was enlarged to twenty-five
and the five alternate sections to ten, and by its fourth section
it was provided that "any lands granted by this act, or the
act to which this is an amendment, shall not defeat or impair
any pre~mption, homestead, swamp land, or other lawful
claim."
That a map of the general route of the road was filed in the
Department of the Interior on December 8, 186-, and that
the Secretary of that department, on January 30, 1865,
caused the lands within twenty-five miles of such general
route to be withdrawn from pre6iption, private entry, and
sale, that the land in controversy was within those limits,
that on February 1, 1870, the map of the line of the road, as
definitely fixed, was filed with the Secretary of the Interior,
and on that day the line of the road was definitely fixed,
that on December 29, 1869, the road was completed in all
respects as contemplated by said act of Congress, and the
Western Pacific Railroad Company was entitled to have and
receive patents from the United States for the land in controversy, the same being within ten miles of the road so completed, and not sold, reserved, or otherwise disposed of by the
United States.
And also that the Western Pacific Railroad Company and

CURTNIER v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

the Central Pacific Railroad Company of Califorma became
consolidated on June 22, 1870, under the name of the Central
Pacific Railroad Company, and that the said Western Pacific
and its successor, the Central Pacific, did, within three years
of the completion of the said road, sell and dispose of the land
m controversy to persons other than the defendants.
The bill then averred that "the Commissioner of the General Land Office did, at the various and respective times hereinafter stated, without right and through error, inadvertence,
and mistake, wrongfully list, by certified lists thereof, to the
State of Califorma, the said above described lands," and then
follow four lists covering the lands in controversy, dated September 8, 1870; March 11, 1871, November 15, 1871, and
March 24, 1873.
That on May 12, 1874, the railroad company by its deputy
land agent presented to the register and receiver of the local
land office a selection of lands claimed by it under its grant,
numbered thirteen, including these lands, that the "mistake,
error, and inadvertence of the said Commissioner of the General Land Office in listing by certified lists said land to the
State of Califorma was not discovered by complainants or its
officers of the said Land Department or by said Central Pacific Railroad Company or its grantees until the 12th of May,
1874, nor could the same by reasonable diligence have been
discovered sooner, that thereupon said register and receiver
wrongfully and in violation of their duty refused to certify said
list as aforesaid requested and refused to certify the same in
any manner whatever."
It was further alleged "that the State of California did, at
various times subsequent to said eighth (8th) day of September,
A.D. 1870, by its land patents purport to convey said lands
mentioned in said list to divers and sundry persons other than
'the Western Pacific Railroad Company' or its successors, the
Central Pacific Railroad Company, and against the will and
without the consent of the said companies or either of them,
as follows, to wit " and then follow the dates of the patents,
the lands patented, and the names of the patentees, the dates
being February 3, 1871, April 3, 1871, November 29, 1871,

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Statement of the Case.

M ay 18, 1872, and March 4, 1878, respectively, and that the
patentees subsequently to the issue of the patents by the State
to them, respectively, and prior to the commencement of this
action, "did by valid mesne conveyances, duly executed and
acknowledged, convey all their right, title, and interest in and
to said lands to the defendants herein."
The bill further averred that the lands so patented by the
State were on July 1, 1862, November 30, 1862, July 2, 1864,
October 5, 1864, January 30, 1865, and December 29, 1869,
alternate sections of the public lands of the United States, and
were within the limits of the railroad grant, and had not been
sold, or reserved, or otherwise disposed of by the United
States, and that no preemption or homestead claim had
attached thereto at the tine the line of the road was definitely fixed, that the President of the United States refused
to issue patents to the railroad company for said lands, "not
because the said Western Pacific Railroad Company and its
successor had not complied with the said acts of Congress, nor
because it was not the kind and description of land granted,
but solely because said land had previously been by mistake,
wrongfully and inadvertently listed to the State of California
as hereinbefore set forth,'" and that the defendants and their
grantors at the time mentioned in the bill "had actual notice
of the said grant of said lands to said company, the said withdrawal thereof, the said erroneous and unlawful listing thereof
by the said error, inadvertence, and mistake of the said Commissioner, and of each and all of the matters and things hereinbefore set forth."
The bill then set forth various steps taken by the railroad
company to procure patents from the Interior Department
notwithstanding the listings to the State, and among other
things that on March 18, 1879, the register and receiver at
San Francisco reported that in accordance with instructions
of January 24, 1878, they had, on February 25, 1878, made
demand on the State of California for the surrender of the
certification of the lands hereinbefore described, and that no
surrender had been made, that they also reported on the
same day that m accordance with instructions of Iarch 9,

CURTNER v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

1878, they furnished the State surveyor general, on March 26,
1878, with a copy of said instructions and made demand on
the State of California to surrender her title and listing of
said lands, but that uR to that date she had failed to surrender
as requested, that on April 2, 1879, the reports were submitted to the Secretary of the Interior, and on the 26th of
June the Secretary affirmed the Commissioner's decision of
Mklarch 9, 1878, awarding the land to said company, but refusing to issue patents for the reason that said land had been
wrongfully listed to the State of California. On December 8,
1879, the Secretary of the Interior transmitted to the Commissioner a letter from the attorney general of California,
dated April 1, 1878, refusing to relinquish the certification and
listings of said lands theretofore listed and certified to the
State by the Commissioner, that afterwards a petition was
filed m the General Land Office for a reconsideration of so
much of the Secretary's decision of June 26, 1879, as declined
to issue to the railroad company patents for the lands that by
mistake were wrongfully listed and certified to the State of
California, and thereafterwards the papers were sent to the
Secretary, who on July 1, 1882, requested the opinion of the
Attorney General of the United States whether patents could
then be issued for the lands, or whether the certification to
the State must be first judicially vacated, that on October 18,
1882, the Secretary of the Interior wrote to the Commissioner
of the General Land Office, enclosing a copy of the Attorney
GeneraPs opinion, and directing the papers to be prepared for
a suit to set aside the listing and certification to the State,
and thereafterwards, on December 6, 1882, the Secretary
requested the Attorney General to commence suit m the
proper court.
The bill then charged that a demand was duly made by the
United States upon the State, February 25, 1878, and refused,
and that the United States were bound in equity and good
faith to hold the Central Pacific IRailroad Company, its
grantees and assigns, harmless from the consequences of
errors and mistakes, and particularly those relating to the
mistake and inadvertence of the Commissioner of the General

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

Land Office.

The bill further averred that proceedings had

been continuously pending before the Land Department for
the purpose of correcting the error and mistake, and had been
prosecuted with due diligence and in accordance with the
usages of the department in relation to Such matters. It was
further stated that prior to December 6, 1882, it had been the
practice of the department to issue second patents to claimants
of land whenever it was made to appear that the first patent
had been wrongfully issued.
The prayer was that "the said listings of said lands to the
State of California as aforesaid be set aside, recalled, cancelled,
and annulled, and that all the defendants herein be forever
estopped and forbidden from asserting any right or title to
said lands, and that the same in said decree be declared to be
public lands of the United States of America, subject to said
rights of the Central Pacific Railroad Company, its grantees
and assigns, as hereinbefore set forth;" and for general
relief.
Answers having been put in, evidence taken, and hearing
had, a decree was rendered, which annulled the listings and
certifications to the State, adjudged the patents issued to the
State to be void, and enjoined the defendants from asserting
any title under them.

2r

Mr E. R. Taylor and Xr Michael .1 ullany for appellants.
Henry F Crane was on _1r' Taylor's brief.

Abr A. B. -Browne for appellees. 1r F fl. Waterman,
-3fr A. T Britton and .211r Solictor General were on his
brief.
11R. CmEF JUSTIcE FULLER, after stating

the case, delivered

the opinion of the court.
The lands in question were odd sections lying within the
twenty-mile limit of the grant of lands made to the Central
Pacific Railroad Company to aid in the construction of its
road, and situated partly in township three south, range three

CURTNER v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

east, Mount Diablo base and meridian, and partly in township
two south, range one east.
It is stated in the opinion of the Circuit Court, rendered on
the final hearing, and reported, 38 Fed. Rep. 1, that "between
May 15, 1863, and May 16, 1864, after actual survey in the
field, but before the survey had been officially adopted or
recognized by the Secretary of the Interior, and before it had
been approved by the surveyor general and filed in the district land office, the State of California, by its locating agent,
made selections and locations of all the lands now in controversy in township three, range three, in part satisfaction
of the grant to the State of lands in lieu of sections 16 and 36,
under the act of March 3, 1853, 10 Stat. 2-14, 246, c. 145.
Between February 17, 1864, and February 9, 1866, the State
had issued its certificates of purchase to the several purchasers
thereof, the first payments of the purchase money having been
made. The selections, apparently at their respective dates,
were by the register of the land office entered in his office.
A portion of these lands was certified over to the State by
the Land Department at Washington, approved by the Secretary of the Interior on November 15, 1871, and the remainder
on March 24, 1873, and they were afterwards patented to the
purchasers by the State. The lands in controversy, situate
in said township two, range one, were selected in advance of
any survey in the field by the United States surveyor general,
upon surveys made by the county surveyors of the State,
between July 28, 1862, and July 20, 1863. Certificates of
sale were issued to purchasers by the State for a part between
March 2, 1863, and January 25, 1864, and for the remainder
between February 20 and March 14, 1865. These selections
were entered by the register of the land office on June 12,
1865. A part was certified over to the State by the Secretary
of the Interior on September 8, 1870, and the rest on March
11, 1871. These lands were also afterwards patented to the
purchasers by the State." In the view which we take of the
case, this summary of the evidence in the particulars mentioned may for convenience be accepted without restatement.
The map of the general route of the railroad company was

OCTOBER TERAI, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

filed in the General Land Office, December 8, 1864, and the
order of withdrawal issued January 30, 1865. The road was
completed December 29, 1869, and the map of definite location filed February 1, 1870. The selections of the railroad
company embracing these lands were made M[ay 12, 1874.
The bill alleges, and the record shows, that patents for all but
three hundred and twenty acres of the lands were issued to
persons mentioned in the bill, from November 9, 1870, up to
and including April 5, 1873, and that the three hundred and
twenty acres were patented by the State to one of such
persons March 4, 1878. The purchasers from the State and
their grantees entered into actual occupation of the lands in
controversy under their certificates of purchase, and from
that time on had continued in the possession of the same.
This suit was commenced July 23, 1883, over twelve years
and eight months after the first patent issued, and over five
years and four months after the issue of the last-named
patent.
The Circuit Court held that lands are not surveyed lands by
the United States until a certified copy of the official plat of
survey has been filed in the local land office, that this had
not been done in respect of these lands, or, if done, that the
filing was too late, that they were therefore unsurveyed, and
that the selections, being made on unsurveyed lands, were
"utterly void." These premises were denied by appellants,
both as to the law and the fact.
The Circuit Court also held that the state selections were
void for the reason that the act of 1853, under which they
were made, excepted from selection by the State, in Veu of
school sections lost, "lands reserved by competent authority,"
and "lands claimed under any foreign grant or title," and
"mineral lands," and that these lands, were excepted because
at the time of their selection, location and sale by the State
they were claimed under a Mexican grant known as "Las
Pocitas." Appellants contended that this conclusion was
based on a mistaken construction of the act of 1853, and an
erroneous application of the act, if properly so construed,
under the facts in the case.

CURTNER v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

Among the points raised upon the demurrer and necessarily
presented upon the final hearing, were these first, whether
the United States had such an interest in the subject matter
of the controversy as warranted their filing the bill, second,
whether the clain set up was not barred by laches and
limitations.
The bill averred that the United States had granted the
land to the railroad company, that the railroad company was
entitled to a patent, that the lands had been wrongfully
listed to the State, and for that reason the United States
refused to grant a patent for the same, and therefore the
bill was filed to enable the government to issue the patent.
But it was also alleged that the Western Pacific Railroad
Company and its successor, the Central Pacific Railroad
Company, did within three years of the completion of the
road, sell and dispose of the land hereinbefore described to
persons other than defendants. The road was completed
December 29, 1869, so that the sale of the land by the railroad company to others than the defendants must have been
before January, 1813, or nune and one-half years before the
original bill was filed.
The rule in relation to the institution of suit by the Attorney
General of the United States to vacate a patent is thus stated
by Mr. Justice Miller m Unsted States v San Jacinto Tin
Company, 125 U S. 273, 285
"But we are of opinion that since the right of the government of the United States to institute such a suit depends
upon the same general principles which would authorize a private citizen to apply to a court of justice for relief against an
instrument obtained from him by fraud or deceit, or any of
those other practices which are admitted to justify a court in
granting relief, the government must show that, like the private individual, it has such an interest in the relief sought as
entitles it to move in the matter. If it be a question of property, a case must be made in which the court can afford a
remedy in regard to that property, if it be a question of
fraud which would render the instrument void, the fraud must
operate to the prejudice of the United States, and if it is

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

apparent that the suit is brought for the benefit of some third
party, and that the United States has no pecuniary interest
in the remedy sought, and is under no obligation to the party
who will be benefited to sustain an action for his use, m
short, if there does not appear any obligation on the part of
the United States to the public, or to any individual, or any
interest of its own, it can no more sustain such an action than
any private person could under similar circumstances.
"In all the decisions to which we have just referred it is
either expressed or implied that this interest or duty of the
United States must exist as the foundation of the right of
action. Of course this interest must be made to appear in the
progress of the proceedings, either by pleading or evidence,
and if there is a want of it, and the fact is manifest that the
suit has actually been brought for the benefit of some third
person, and that no obligation to the general public exists
which requires the United States to bring it, then the suit
must fail. In the case before us the bill itself leaves a fair
implication that if this patent is set aside the title to the property will revert to the United States, together with the beneficial interest in it."
And in United States v Beebe, 127 U. S. 338, 342, it was
said by Mr. Justice Lamar, delivering the opinion of the court
"If a patent is wrongfully issued to one individual which
should have been issued to another, or if two patents for the
same land have been issued to two different individuals, it
may properly be left to the individuals to settle, by personal
litigation, the question of right in which they alone are interested. But if it should come to the knowledge of the government that a patent has been fraudently obtained, and that
such fraudulent patent, if allowed to stand, would work prejudice to the interests or rights of the United States, or would
prevent the government from fulfilling an obligation incurred
by it, either to the public or to an individual, which personal
litigation could not remedy, there would be an occasion which
would make it the duty of the government to institute judicial proceedings to vacate such patent."
In the case before us, the State of California and its grantees

CURTNER v. UNITED STATES.
Opmon of the Court.

clanned title under the United States, as did the railroad
company and its grantees. Either the grantees of the State
or the grantees of the railroad had, when the bill was filed,
the title to the land. No fraud or imposition or wrong as
against the United States was charged, and no case made upon
which the United States sought relief for themselves. Nor
was the case one of mistake, in the sense that the action of
the United States and the State would not have been what it
was but for ignorance of particular facts or of the law If the
State acquired the legal title by the listings, that legal title
passed to its grantees, and if the railroad company and its
grantees acquired an equitable title, no reason is perceived
why the real parties in interest could not litigate their claims
as between each other. And this was equally true if the
State's selections and the listings were wholly void. No
wrong was chargeable to the State, and if the State and railroad company each claimed the land in good faith upon mere
questions of law and fact, without any element of wrong or
fraud, it does not appear to us that the bill shlould be regarded
as accomplishing anything more than raising a controversy
between the parties actually in interest.
Under the railroad grant acts themselves, nothing contained
therein was to impair or -defeat any valid claim existing at
the time the line of the road was definitely fixed, and upon
the face of this record there can be no question that the claim
of the State of California, based upon its making selections of
the lands and presenting the same for approval, was a claim
in good faith, and the obligation of the United States to the
State was as much to be considered as the obligation to the
railroad company, and its liability to make good the loss was
to that one of the parties upon whom the loss might finally
fall.
We are of opinion that upon the case made, the same principles must be applied as if the litigation were between private parties.
In this regard, the case of United States v Beebe, 127
UIF. S. 338, is exactly m point and of controlling weight.
There a bonaftde claimant had made a location under a New
VOL. cxiux--43

OCTOBER TERM. 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

Madrid certificate, perfected his claim, and received a certificate upon which he had become entitled to a patent for the
land. Afterwards, and while the matter was pending, Beebe
and others, as was alleged, by some imposition or fraud procured a patent to be issued to them for the same land. Suit
was permitted to be brought in the name of the United States
to cancel the Beebe patent, and the defences relied on in the
court below were (1) the want of authority m the Attorney
General to file a bill for an annulment of a patent in a case
like that, (2) that the claim was barred by the statute of
limitations; (3) that the claim sued on was stale, (4) that the
complainant had no equity to maintain the suit. It was held
by this court that the United States could properly proceed
by bill in equity to have a judicial decree of annulment and
an order of cancellation of a patent issued by mistake, or procured by fraud, where the government had a direct interest
or was under an obligation respecting the relief sought, but
that, in the language of Mr. Justice Lamar, "when the
government is a mere formal complainant in a suit, not for
the purpose of asserting any public right or protecting any
public interest, title, or property, but merely to form a conduit through which one private person can conduct litigation
against another private person, a court of equity will not be
restrained from administering the equities existing between
the real parties by any exemption of the government designed
for the protection of the rights of the United States alone.
The mere use of its name in a suit for the benefit of a private
suitor cannot extend its immunity as a sovereign government
to said private suitor, whereby he can avoid and escape the
scrutiny of a court of equity into the matters pleaded against
him by the other party, nor stop the court from examining
into and deciding the case according to the principles governing courts of equity in like cases between private litigants.
These principles, so far as they relate to general statutes of
limitation, the laches of a party, and the lapse of time, have
been rendered familiar to the legal mind by the oft-repeated
enunciation and enforcement of them in the decisions of this
court. According to these decisions, courts of equity in gen-

CURTNER v. UNITED STATES..
Opinion of the Court.

eral recognize and give effect to the statute of limitations as a
defence to an equitable right, when at law it would have
been properly pleaded as a bar to a legal right."
The decision of the Circuit Court in that case dismissmg the
bill on the ground of laches was sustained, because, although
Beebe had procured his patent by fraud and imposition upon
the government or its officers, and the superior right to the
land was originally in others, yet it was apparent that the suit
was prosecuted in the name of the United States only on behalf of private persons, and therefore should be barred if
they were.
Tested by this rule, it is clear that the claim of the railroad
company and its grantees cannot be sustained.
The grant was 'n _rwsentz, and attached upon the filing of a
map of definite location. When the identification of a granted
section became so far complete as to authorize the grantee to
take possession, the legal title of the granted land passed, and
an action for possession could be maintained by the company
or its grantees before the issue of a patent. The patent would
have been evidence that the land named was granted, that the
grantee had complied with the conditions of the grant, and
that the grant was to that extent relieved from the possibility
of forfeiture for breach of its conditions, but was not essential
to transfer the legal right. -DeseretSalt Company v Tarpey,
149 U. S. 241, Sioux City Company v Grvey, 143 U. S. 32.
The company had, on February 1, 1870, whatever title it
could obtain, and whatever rights belonged to it, and its cause
of action then accrued. The land had already been certified
to the State by the Commissioner of the General Land Office
and the Secretary of The Interior, and their action in that regard was m law the same as if patents had been issued to the
State. Frasherv O'Connor, 115 U S. 102.
If that action was wholly void, then it was open to collateral attack, and the railroad company and its grantees could
have brought suit to test the legal title at once. Doolan v
Carr, 125 U. S. 618.
If that action was not void, but the Interior Department
had taken mistaken views of the law, or drawn erroneous con-

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

clusions from the evidence, and the railroad company and its
grantees possessed such equities as would control the legal
title vested in the State and its grantees, then resort could
have been had to a court of equity for relief. Smeltzng Co. v
.Kemp, 104 U S. 636.
In either aspect, the rights of the parties could have been
determined by proceedings on behalf of the company or its
grantees against the patentees of the State or their grantees,
but instead of instituting such proceedings, the railroad company besieged the principal officers of the Land Department
to ignore the action of their predecessors in office, and to exercise a power that had become functus oficio. Noble v
Unom .Rver Zoggzngailroad, 14:7 U. S. 175. If patents
had been issued to the railroad companv, then the case would
have been presented of two patent3 for the same land issued
to two different parties, and, as pointed out in Unmted States
v Beebe, the matter might properly be left to those parties to
settle by personal litigation.
This bill was not filed until more than thirteen years after
the cause of action had accrued, and twelve years after the
first patent, and over five years after the last patent, was
issued, by the State, while the selections and purchases thereunder were made long before.
Under the laws of Califorma, an action may be brought by
any person against another, who claims an estate or interest
in real property adverse to him, for the purpose of determining such adverse claun, but no action can be brought for the
recovery of real property or for possession thereof, or arising
out of the title thereto, unless such action is commenced
vrithin five years after the cause of action shall have accrued,
and an action for relief not otherwise provided for must be
commenced witbin four years. (Code Civ. Proc. Cal. §§ 318,
319, 313, 738.)
Whether the statute be applied directly or by analogy, or
the rule in equity founded upon lapse of time and staleness of
claim, the delay and laches here are fatal to the maintenance
of the suit.
The ineffectual pressure of the company on the Land De-

CURTNER v. UNITED STATES.
Dissenting Opinion. Field, J.

partment furnished no excuse as between the real parties to
this litigation, and the United States occupied no such relation to the case as to be entitled to the exemption from limitation and laches accorded to governments proceeding in their

own right.
If through erroneous action of its officers, the bounty of the
government in the particular instance has not reached those
for whoin it was intended, but has reached beneficiaries who
were not intended to have these particular lands, the government may be relied on to effectuate its own designs, and to
make good any moral obligation that rests upon it, but it
had not such pecumary or other interest in this litigation as
entitled it to ask the suspension of the beneficent rules applied by the courts in the administration of justice between
individuals.
The decree .s reversed and the cause remanded wdk a directwon to dism'tee the bill.
MR. JusTicE FmELD dissenting
I am not able to agree with the majority of the cout in
their decision of this case. The lands in controversy fall
within the limits of the grant to the Central Pacific Railroad
Company, but by mistake and inadvertence of the Land Department they were listed to the State of California. Discovering its mitake, the department refused to issue to the
company a patent for the lands to which it was entitled,
until the erroneous listing to the State was set aside and annulled. The present bill was filed by the Attorney General
for that purpose -and because of this proceeding and the
delay of the company in waiting on its issue - instead of
taking steps to enforce its rights at law for the land, this
court now holds that it has lost the right to them, and that
as the United States have no interest in the property, except
to clear it of the cloud of the listings wrongly made, they
cannot maintain the suit. The result, which produces simple
injustice to the railroad company without wrong on its part,
ought not in my judgment to be upheld.

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Dissenting Opinion: Field, J.

In United Slates v H-ughes, 11 How 568, a patent had been
issued by mistake to Hughes in disregard of the prior rights
of one Goodbee and of parties deriving title under him. The
United States filed an information in the nature of a bill in
equity against Hughes for the repeal and surrender of his
patent, on the ground that its existence impaired the ability
of the government to fulfil its engagements to Goodbee.
The case was before this court originally on demurrer, and it
was held that the court had jurisdiction to annul the patent
thus inprovidently issued. When here a second time (4 Wall.
232) the court, reaffirming its first decision, said "When
this case was here on demurrer the patent was considered by
the court to be a valid instrument, conveying the fee of the
United States, and, until annulled, as rendering them incapable of complying with their engagement to Goodbee or his
alienees. Whether regarded in that aspect, or as a void instrument, issued without authority, it rima facie passed the
title, and, therefore, it was the plain duty of the United
States to seek to vacate and annul the instrument, to the end
that their previous engagement might be fulfilled by the
transfer of a clear title, the only one intended for the purchaser by the act of Congress. The power of a court of
equity, by its decree to vacate and annul the patent, under the
circumstances of this case, is undoubted. Relief, when deeds
or other instruments are executed by mistake or inadvertence
of agents, as well as upon false suggestions, is a common head
of equity jurisprudence."
Upon this doctrine the court below proceeded in this case,
m order that the government might discharge its obligation
to the railroad company It is a case where the government
admits the error of its officers of the Land Department, acknowledges its obligation to correct it, and seeks to remove
from its records the inadvertent and erroneous certification to
the State of the lands, so that it may be able to issue a clear
title to the railroad company, the right of that company
having been finally determined, and thus carry out the pledge
of its grant.
There was at no time an admission by the railroad company

CURTN ER v. UNITED STATES.
Dissenting Opinion. Field, J.

of the correctness of the original action of the Land Department, or any acquiescence therein, but, insisting always upon
the error of its proceedings, the company urged upon the
department to correct them and issue to it the patent which
the law authorized.
The case is not, in my judgment, within the doctrine of
United States v Beebe, 127 U. S. 338, which would exclude
the interference of the United States, but is within the doctrine which there recognizes and upholds it. In that case the
original claimant had rested on the action of the Land
Department, and sought the assistance of the United States
only after the lapse of nearly half a century, and it was held
that the interference of the government, after such a lapse
of time, was simply a proceeding to avoid the laches of the
claimant and to give to him the benefit of its exemption from
them. But it declared that a suit of the United States would
lie to set aside a patent where the government was under an
obligation respecting the relief invoked. In this case the
railroad company has not remained inactive, but upon a
decision in its favor by the department, asked for its promised
patent, which was only withheld because of the previous
inadvertent and mistaken action of the government's officers
in issuing a certificate to the State. In such circumstances
the government, it seems to me, ought not to be debarred the
right to correct the mistake of its officers, by which alone the
intention of the law was defeated. I think the decree below
should be affirmed.

