MNc

ULTY v. CALIFORNIA.
Opinion of the Court.
U

MoNULTY v. CALIFORNIA.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA.
No. 1253. Submitted May 1,1893.- Decided May 15, 1893.

The decision of the Supreme Court of California that McNulty should be
punished under the law as it existed at the time of his conviction, involved no Federal question.
It was settled in Hurtado v. Californza, 110 U. S. 516, that the words "due
process of law" in the Fourteenth Amendment do not necessarily require an indictment by a grand jury in a prosecution by a State for
murder, whose constitution authorizes such prosecution by information.
When the record in a case brought by writ of error from a state court fails
to show that a right, privilege or immunity claimed under the Constitution or a treaty or statute of the United States was set up or claimed,
and was denied in the state court, this court is without jurisdiction to
review the judgment of the state court in that respect.

Tins was a motion to dismiss.

The case is stated in the

opinion.

.ArWilliam H. H. Hart,Attorney General of the State of
California, for the motion.
.Ar Carroll Cook opposing.
MR. CHIEF

TUSTICE

FULLER

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
Plaintiff in error was tried for the murder of one Collins
on M arch 25, 1888, convicted and -entenced to be hanged.
From the judgment of conviction he prosecuted an appeal to
the Supreme Court of the State of California, winch on May
1, 1891, affirmed the judgment of the court below On May
27, the Supreme Court, of its own motion set aside the judgment of affirmance solely on the ground, as shown by the
record, that the cause might "be argued upon the question of
effect and operation of the recent amendment to the penal

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

code respecting the execution of a sentence of death." The
cause having been reargued, the judgment below was again
affirmed on December 12, 1891. On December 31, a petition
for a rehearing was filed, and on January 11, 1892, a rehearing was granted, and thereafter the cause was again argued.
On February 20, 1892, the judgment appealed from was again
affirmed, and plaintiff in error applied to the Supreme Court
of California to allow a writ of error from this court, which
application was denied. Subsequently a writ of error was
allowed by one of the Justices of this court and a motion is
now made to dismiss that writ or affirm the judgment.
At the time of the commission of the alleged crime, the
conviction, and the judgment, the laws of California prescribed the penalty of death for such crime, and that execution should be had not less than thirty nor more than sixty
days after judgment, by the sheriff, within the walls or yard
of a jail, or some convenient private place in the county
Pending the appeal to the Supreme Court a statute was
passed amending the penal code so as to provide that the
judgment should be executed in not less than sixty nor more
than ninety days from the time of judgment, by the warden
of one of the state prisons, within the walls thereof, and that
the defendant should be delivered to such warden within ten
days from the judgment. (Stat. Cal. 1891, 272.)
As is stated in the majority opinion of the Supreme Court
of the State, 93 Califorma, 427, the case when first heard in
that court was determined without reference to the amendment of the law concermng the execution of the death
penalty
Upon a suggestion of a difficulty arising in view of the
amendments, which had been enacted after McNulty was convicted and sentenced, a reargument was ordered, and a majority of the court reached the conclusion that the amendments
were, under the rule laid down in .Medhey's case, 134 U S.
160, unconstitutional n oto, and that, therefore, the former
law was not thereby repealed. On that argument it was
assumed, and the opinion of the court proceeded upon the
assumption, that the amendments stood entirely without a

MIoNULTY v. CALIFORNIA.
Opunon of the Court.

saving clause, either in the amendments themselves or in the
general statutory law Subsequently the attention of the
court was called to section 329 of the Political Code as constituting a saving clause fully covering the amendments, and
the court held that such was the effect of that section. The
section read as follows. "The repeal of any law creating a
criminal offence does not constitute a bar to the indictment or
information and punishment of an act already committed in
violation of the law so repealed, unless the intention to bar
such indictment or information and punishment, is expressly
declared m the repealing act."
It was, therefore, concluded that McNulty was to be punished under the law as it existed at the tune of the commission of the crime of winch he was convicted, and that under
this view the act of 1891 was constitutional, because not intended to apply to past offences, but to be prospective only in
its operation, and the judgment was accordingly affirmed.
It is clear that this writ of error cannot be sustained. If
the affiriance based upon the conclusion reached by the court
on the first reargument had stood, a writ of error could not
have issued, since that decision of the court did not sustam
the validity of the act of 1891, but on the contrary held it to
be wholly void as in contravention of the Constitution of the
United States. The final affirmance of the judgment reached
upon the second reargument rested upon the conclusion that
a saving clause existed m the statutes of California which
retained the prior law m force, and justified the execution of
the sentence thereundeP.
The contention of counsel is that the execution of plaintiff
in error as ordered would be without due process, because the
amendments of 1891 repealed the former law, and left no law
under which he could be executed, since the amendments
could not be enforced because of their being in violation of
the Constitution. But tins argument amounts to no more
than the assertion that the Supreme Court of the State erred
as to the proper construction of the statutes of Califorma, an
inquiry it is not within our province to enter upon, or that
that court committed an error so gross as to amount in law to

