OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Statement of the Case.

CADWALADER v. WANAMAKER.'
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE

EASTERN DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA.
No. 31. Argued April 11,12, 1893. - Decided May 15, 1893.

Imported articles, commercially known as ribbons, composed wholly or
partly of silk and chiefly used for trimming hats, bonnets, or hoods, are
dutiable at twenty per centum ad valorem, under Schedule N of the tariff
act of March 3, 1883, 22 Stat. 488, c. 121.
The case of Hartranft v. Langfeld, 125 U. S. 128, cited and approved.
The case Bobertson v. Edelhoff, 132 U. S. 614, cited, distinguished and approved.

The firm of John Wanamaker brought an action in the
Court of Common Pleas of Philadelphia, State of Pennsylvania, against John Cadwalader, the collector of customs
for that district, wherein it was sought to recover from the
defendant moneys paid under protest by the plaintiffs to the
defendant as collector of customs, as duties, in order to obtain
possession of merchandise imported for the plaintiffs, which
moneys were demanded and collected by defendant in excess
of the amount authorized by law This action was certified
to the Circuit Court of the United States for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania, and there resulted in a verdict and
judgment in favor of the plaintiffs, from which judgment the
case is brought into this court by a writ of error.
The matter in controversy arose under the tariff act of
March 3, 1883. 22 Stat. 488, c. 121.
The plaintiffs claimed the imported articles were dutiable
under Schedule I, which was in the following terms
"H{ats, and so forth, materials for Braids, plaits, flats,
laces, trimmings, tissues, willow sheets and squares, used for
making or ornamenting hats, bonnets, and hoods, composed
I Together with this case were argued the cases of Walker v. Seeberger
No. 151,.post, p. 541, and Hfartranft v. Meyer No. 860, post, p. 544.

CADWALADER v. WANAMAKER.
Statement of the Case.

of straw, chip, grass, palm leaf, willow, hair, whalebone, or
any other substance or material, not specially enumerated
or provided for in this act, twenty per centum ad valorem."

(22 Stat. 512.)
The defendant contended that he was right in having
assessed the articles under Schedule L, which provided as
follows
"All goods, wares, and merchandise, not specially enumerated or provided for in this act, made of silk, or of which
silk is the component material of chief value, fifty per centuni
ad valorem." (22 Stat. 510.)
In applying these respective clauses, the plaintiffs claimed
that articles chiefly used to trim hats with are trimmings,
dutiable at twenty per cent. The defendant claimed that
articles are not materials for hat trimmings, when the imported articles bear the commercial name of ribbons, or belong
to that commercial class, that, being made of silk, the imported articles in question fell within Schedule L, and, that
if the jury believed that the articles belonged to the class
commercially distinguished under the general name of ribbons,
then the plaintiffs could not recover, even if their chief use
was as trimmings for hats, as claimed by the plaintiffs.
The issues thus raised were submitted to the jury in a
charge, the correctness of which is the subject of our judgment.
The essential deliverances of the court, which determined
the verdict of the jury, were in these words
"Upon the uncontroverted proofs in this case, ribbons are
trimmings. The issue here is, what kind of trimmings are
the particular ribbons in controversy 2 Are they trimmings
chiefly for hats, bonnets, or hoods2 This is a question of fact
for the jury, which, if answered in the affirmative, entitles the
plaintiff to recover. I instruct you accordingly
"If you are satisfied under the evidence, considering the
preponderating weight of it, that these kinds of ribbons, such
as you have here, are commonly and usually used for the
ornamentation of hats, then the character of these goods is
determined.

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Counsel for Defendants in Error in No. 860.

"These are the two facts that you are to consider and
determine by your verdict First, are these ribbons, of which
you have samples here, trimmings within the section of the
act of Congress? And, secondly, if so, are they used more
largely than for any other purpose in the making and ornamentation of hats, bonnets, and hoodsq These are the two
facts, and as you determine them this case must be decided.
"In a case that was decided by the Supreme Court, which
went up from this district, the Supreme Court has unquestionably held that articles which come within the description of
this clause of the act are subject only to a duty of 20 per
cent. That is, if they are trimmings, and if they are used for
making and ornamenting hats, they are classifiable under this
clause of the act of Congress, and are subject to a duty of
only 20 per cent.
"It is immaterial to inquire whether the Supreme Court in
terms has said anything about the silk clause. They have
determined that articles which are of the character described
here and for the use stated come within that clause, and are
subject only to a duty of 20 per cent. That is incontestable.
So that by that ruling of the Supreme Court we are governed,
and must so expound the law in cases occurring afterwards
and relating to articles of a similar character."
This case was argued with WValker v. Seeberger, No. 151,
post, 546, and _Hartranft v Meyer, No. 860, post, 549. On
motion of M!r Solictor General three hours were allowed
each side in the argument of the cases, and, on motion of
M r A. 17. Garland, of counsel for plaintiff in error in No.
151, three counsel were allowed to be heard for the importers.
.A& Solicitor General opened for the collectors and the
government.
Mr A. H Garland followed for the plaintiff in error in
No. 151.
.Mr Frank Pritekard followed for the defendants in error
in No. 31 and for the defendants in error in No. 860.

CADWALADER v. WANAMAKER.
Argument for the Government.

.r Josepk I. Choate followed for the defendants in error
in No. 31 and for the defendants in error in No. 860. Mr
Henry Edwm, Temam and _Yr .fason IF Tyler were on
_Y1r Choate's brief.
r Solicitor GeneraZ closed for the collectors and the
government. The following is a summary of his argument.
It is with no intention of questioning the high authority of
this court, and with no desire to transgress the limits of proper
.discussion at this bar, that I assert that the construction contended for by the importers is not authorized by the language
alone of the act of March 3, 1883. I, therefore, request that
I may be permitted in the first instance to argue the question
involved as an original one, before proceeding to discuss the
two cases which it is insisted in behalf of the importers are
decisive of those at bar.
The articles in question are within the silk schedule of the
tariff act of March 3, 1883, and are also within the terms of
the act of February 8, 1875. To classify them under the hatmaterial clause an inquiry has been made into the use of the
materials, and it having been ascertained that they were used
for many purposes, the inquiry was then extended to their socalled chief use. In behalf of the United States, it is insisted
that there is a difference between an article and a matenal,
that one is nominative, distinctive in its character, implying
the idea of a completed, independent thing, while the other is
general, embracing the substance from which articles are
made. The words "braids, plaits, fiats, laces, trimmings,
tissues, willow sheets and squares," each denominate an artcle
as distinguished from the materials of which it is made, this
requires that to the word " trimmings" should be given its
ordinary meaning, which is, an article used as an ornamental
fitting, therefore, evidence as to the chief use of the matertals
from which trimmings are made is beyond the scope of the
statute. Attention is called to the fact that no attempt was
made to limit this inquiry to the date of the act of 1883, and
prior thereto, (Rossman v lledden, 145 U. S. 561, 570,) but

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Argument for the Government.

in the cases decided against the government the inquiry related to the date of the trial.
The doctrine of ehtf use is not found in the statute,
is impracticable in application, and renders the law uncertain.
The words "not specially enumerated as provided for in
this act" limit and qualify the words "other substance or
material" and not the words "braids, plaits, fiats, laces, trimmings, tissues, willow sheets and squares," and therefore the
articles in controversy are not entitled to classification under
this clause even if it be admitted, for sake of argument, that
they are "trimmings" used for making or ornamenting hats,
bonnets and hoods, because they are not composed of straw,
chip, grass or any other material not specially enumerated,
but on the contrary are composed of silk, a substance or
material which is specially provided for in the act.
The act of February 8, 1875, established a rule of classification for all goods made of silk or of which silk is the component material of chief value, with certain exceptions not
embracing the articles in controversy This act is yet in
force, except as to rates of duty established by act of March
3, 1883. This latter act was only intended and declared to be
a substitute for Title 33 of the Revised Statutes of the United
States, of which the act of February 8, 1883, never formed a
part. Repeals by implication are not favored.
In each of the cases at bar, it being conceded that the goods
were made either of silk or of silk as their component material
of chief value, it- follows that they are within the silk clause,
and therefore, so far, at least, subject to the duty at the rate
of 50 per centum ad valorem. The question then arises, are
they also within the hat-material paragraph, and hence also
subject to the 20 per centum rate? That question was left to
the jury in the Cadwalader and H7artranft cases. In the
Walker case the jury was instructed to bring in a verdict for
defendant if they found the goods were composed of silk or of
silk as their component material of chief value. It being conceded that they were so composed, that instruction ended the
case.

CADWALADER v. WANAMAKER.
Argument for the Government.

The argument then, deals with these two questions
First. Are the goods classifiable for duty under the hatmaterial clause of the act of 1883 2
Second. If both the hat-material clause and the silk clause
of 1883 are literally applicable to the given articles, which
clause prescribes the legal rate of duty 2
The question of predominant or chief use is one not susceptible of proof by expert or opinion evidence. In these cases
the inquiry was not what the articles were, for what they were
purchased, or of what composed, nor yet to what use they
were adapted, but to what use they were the more generally
put. The witnesses, being importers or employes of importers,
could have no familiar knowledge of the actions or conduct of
consumers merely because they were employed in such walks
of life. There is a difference between evidence of the fact
that any given article has been put to a certain use, and evidence that a larger quantity of the article is consumed in the
one use than in any other, especially when predicated as in
these cases, of articles used for many purposes, and throughout
the country, and in different quantities at different times.
Herein lies the difference between guessing and expert opinion, which latter, wzthzn the limits of personal observation
or study, is deemed a relevant fact.
The popular or received import of words furnishes the general rule for the interpretation of public laws as well as of
private transactions. Ataillard v Lawrence, 16 How 251.
According to this test, even upon the testimony of plaintiffs'
own witnesses, the articles in dispute are popularly known as
ribbons, chinas and marcelines. This brings the cases squarely
within Schmezder v. Barney, 113 U. S. 645, 64:7, 648.
The doctrine of chief use as applied in the Cadwaladerand
HZartranftcases has never received the approval of this court.
In the _Langfeld case (125 U. S.128) where the goods in controversy were velvet ribbons, the court assures us that "there
was no controversy in the evidence as to whether these velvet
ribbons were or were not trimmings, all the witnesses agreed
that they were." (p. 133.) In deciding that case the court
meant only to hold that the ordinary habitual use of the article

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Argument for the Government.

should be considered, and this was not to be defeated by proof
of a single or occasional use for some other purpose.
Although in the Edelhoff case (132 U. S. 614) it is said that
the words "not specially enumerated or provided for in this
act" relate to the eight articles, (braids, plaits, flats, etc.,) and
not to the words "hats, bonnets, and hoods," it is submitted
that they should be held to limit and modify specially the
words "other substance or material" and that a "trimming,"
used for making or ornaamenting, a hat or hood could be classified under this clause, only when composed of the materials
specially enumerated, or of some "other substance or material"
that is not specially enumerated or provided for elsewhere in
the act. If the article to be classified is found to be a trimming
composed of none of the substances named, but of a substance
or material specially enumerated or provided for in the act, it
is not within this clause of the statute, and the court should
have directed a verdict for the government.
In cases at bar the goods are composed wholly or partly of
silk. In Schedule L a substance or material known as "silk"
is both "enumerated" and "provided for" in the act. It
follows that goods composed of such substance or material
cannot properly be classified under the hat-material clause,
wherever else they may belong.
The word "trimiinngs" is properly defined as "anything
used for decoration or finish, an ornamental fitting of any
sort, usually in the plural. as the trimmings of a harness or
of a hat.
Hence any accessory or accompaniment,
usually in the plural." Cent. Dictionary, sub. "trimming."
In the Ilartraift and Cadwialader cases the jury were instructed that they should not give the term "trimmings" any
technical or particular commercial meaning. They were substantially told that the question was whether the goods in
controversy were "materials out of which trimmings for hats
were made." This was a misconception of the language of
the clause in question. If the court shall hold that the words
"not specially enumerated or provided for" refer to and limit
the words "substance or material," then, practically, all the
instructions in the Cadwalader and flartranft cases were

CADWALADER v. WANAMAKER.
Opimon of the Court.

erroneous and the action in the Malker case correct, and
upon such a holding there is an end to the "hat-material"
controversy
M

. JUSTICE

SHiRAS,

after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
It will be observed that the court below was controlled in
its charge by the decision of this court in the case of Hart-ranf.tv Langfeld, 125 U. S. 128, and construed that decision
as ruling that, if the imported articles were trimmings, and
were more generally used for the ornamentation of hats than
for any other purpose, then such articles must be regarded as
coming within Schedule N of the tariff act of 1883, and subject to a duty of 20 per centum.
An examination of that case, in the light of the extended
criticism bestowed upon it an the briefs filed in the present
case, satisfies us that the court below did not nisinterpret the
decision. The case was, in all important respects, like the
present one. It was an action by an importer to recover an
alleged illegal excess of duties, anci wherein ribbons made of
silk and cotton, of which silk was the material of chief value,
were the articles in question. The testimony on the part of
the plaintiff tended to show that the ribbons were chiefly used
in making or ornamenting hats, bonnets, and hoods, but that
they might be, and sometimes were, used for trimming dresses.
The testimony on the part of the defendant tended to show
that they were dress trimmings equally with hat trimmings,
and were commonly used as much for the one purpose as the
other. In this state of the evidence the trial court charged
the jury thus "It is the use to which these articles are chiefly
adapted, and for which they are used, that determines their
character within the meaning of this clause of the tariff act.
It is the predominant use to which articles are applied
that determines the character.
You will, therefore,
determine to which use these articles in question are chiefly
devoted. If they are hat trimmings, and used for making and
ornamenting hats, then the rate of duty was excessive.

OCTOBER TERMI, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

The question is simply and purely one of fact, namely,
what is the predominant use to which these articles are devoted 2 As you determine that question you will return your
verdict." These instructions were approved by this court, and
the judgment of the court below in favor of the importer was
affirmed.
It is quite apparent that if the law was correctly laid down
in Hartranftv Zangfeld, the court below, in the present case,
did not err in its treatment of the subject. Substantially the
same question came afterwards before this court in the case of
2-obertson v Edelhof,132 IU.S. 614, on error to the Circuit
Court for the Southern District of New York. Again the
question was as to the correct classification, under the act of
:March 3, 1883, of ribbons composed of silk and cotton, in
which silk was the component material of chief value. The
court below gave peremptory instructions to the jury to find
for the plaintiff, the undisputed evidence being that the articles in question were used exclusively as trimmings for ornamenting hats and bonnets, and had a commercial value only
for that purpose. And this action of the trial court was
approved by this court in an elaborate opinion.
It will be noticed that the case of Robertson v Edelko!
differs from the case of lartranftv Zangfeld, and from the
present case, in the particular that the fact was conceded that
the ribbons in question were exclusively used for hat trimmings, and that question was not submitted to the jury,
whereas in the other cases there was conflicting evidence as to
the use made of the ribbons, and it was submitted to the jury
to find what was the chief or predominant use made of the
articles.
In view of these decisions of this court, it isevident that
the court below, in the present case, cannot be convicted of
error.
A very earnest and able effort has been made, on behalf of
the government, to lead us to reconsider the doctrine of those
cases.
We have read with care the elaborate briefs submitted to
us by the Solicitor General, but as we are unable to accept

