OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

a denial by the State of due process of law or of some right
secured to the plaintiff in error by the Constitution of the
United States, a proposition not open to discussion upon
the record before us. In our judgment, the decision of the
Supreme Court of Califorma, that he should be punished
under the law as it existed at the time of the commission of
the crime of which he was convicted, involved no Federal
question whatever.
It may be added that MvcNulty was proceeded against by
information, and by three of the twenty-two assignments of
error the legality of so proceeding is questioned, and it is also
claimed that the judgment was erroneous because it did not
appear from the record that MclTulty had had a legal or any
examination before the filing of the information, or had been
lawfully or at all committed by any magistrate.
It was settled m Hurtado v Califorma,110 U. S. 516, that
the words "due process of law" in the Fourteenth Amendment do not necessarily require an indictment by a grand jury
in a prosecution by a State for murder, whose constitution
authorizes such prosecution by information, and no point
appears to have been made or decided in the state court as
to the previous examination and commitment. So far as the
record shows, no right, privilege, or immunity in respect of
these matters was set up or claimed and denied, as required
by section 709 of the Revised Statutes. Spwes v Illinois, 123
U. S. 131.
We perceive no ground upon which this writ of error can
be sustained. In re Kemmler, 136 4U. S. 436,; Caldwell v
Texas, 137 U S. 692; Leeper v Texas, 139 U. S. 462.
Wrqit of error dismwssed.

VINCENT V. CALIFORNIA. Error to the Supreme Court of the State
of California. No. 1316. Submitted May 1, 1893. Decided May
15, 1893. This case, which will be found reported in 95 California, 425, differs in no essential respect from that of MieNulty,
just considered. For the reasons given in the foregoing opinion,
the writ of error must be
Dismissed.

SHUTE v. KEYSER.
Opinion of the Court.

.Mr William H. H. H~art, Attorney General of the State of Califorma, for the motion to dismiss.
.Mr Carroll Cook opposing.

SHUTE v. KEYSER.
APPEAL

FROM THE

SUPREME COURT
ARIZONA.

OF

No. 1187. Submitted May 1, 1893. -Decided

THE TERRITORY

OF

May 15, 1893.

An appeal or writ of error lies to this court from the judgments or decrees
of the Supreme Courts of the Territories, except in cases where the
judgments of the Circuit Courts of Appeal are made final.

T.is was a motion to dismiss.
opinion.

The case is stated in the

-Hr R. F Brent for the motion.
.Ab' William Allen Butler and .MXr
posing.
M-. CinEF
court.

JUSTICE FULLER

John Jlotman op-

delivered the opinion of the

This was an action brought in the district court of Gila
County, Arizona, by William Keyser against George E. Shute,
sheriff of that county, and certain judgment creditors of the
Old Domnimon Copper Mining Company, to enjoin the threatened sale, under an execution against that company, of mining
property of which Keyser claimed to be the owner, which resulted in a decree in favor of Keyser according to the prayer
of the complaint. The case was carried by appeal to the
Supreme Court of the Territory and the judgment affirmed,
whereupon an appeal to this court was allowed, and the case

