OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Statement of the Case.

CARR v. QUIGLEY
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA.
Argued April 26, 27, 1893. -Decided

May 15, 1893.

Lands within the exterior limits of a Mexican grant, sub 3udice at the date of
the definite location of the Central Pacific railroad, were not "reserved,"
within the meaning of that word as used in section three of the act of
July 1, 1862, (12 Stat. 489, c. 120,) but inured to the road as a portion of
its land grant and were properly patented to it as such.
Newhall v. Sanger 92 U. S. 761, explained. United SStates v. .cLaughlin,
127 U. S. 428, approved.

Tins was an action of ejectment brought by W B. Carr
against John Quigley for the possession of one hundred and
sixty acres of land situated in the county of Alameda, State of
California. The land is a portion of an unnumbered odd
section granted to the Central Pacific Railroad Company of
California by the act of Congress of July 1, 1862, as amended
by the act of July 2, 1864, and which, by the consolidation of
the Western Pacific Railroad Company with the Central
Pacific Railroad Company, under the laws of California, in
June, 1870, inured to the latter company, and to it a patent
of the United States for the land mentioned was issued bearing
date on the 17th day of May, 1874.
The plaintiff claimed title to the demanded premises under a
conveyance to him by the Central Pacific Railroad Company
on the 10th day of Jupe, 1871.
The complaint alleges that the plaintiff was the owner in
fee and entitled to the possession of the premises on the 22d
of December, 1877, and that on that day the defendant, without right or title, against the will of the plaintiff, entered upon
the premises and ejected the plaintiff therefrom, and has ever
since withheld the possession from him, to his damage of one
thousand dollars, and that the value of the annual rent of the
premises is three hundred and twenty dollars. He therefore
prays judgment for the restitution of the premises, for the
damages sustained, and for the rents and profits.

CARR v. QUIGLEY.
Statement of the Case.

The defendant in his amended answer, in addition to a general denial of the allegations of the complaint, sets up 1st,
that at the date of the patent to the railroad company the
land patented was not subject to the disposal of Congress, but
was land reserved to answer the calls for land of a grant from
the Mexican government to Jose Koriega and Robert Livermore, bearing date the 10th of April, 1839, and that by reason
of such reservation the patent was issued without authority of
law, and consequently was void, that, since October, 1877,
the defendant has been in rightful possession of the land as a.
preemptor under the laws of the United States, and, 2d, that
the land was not sold by the grantee, the railroad company,
within three years after the completion of its road.
A demurrer to this last defence was sustained by the court
and its ruling was acquiesced in.
It was agreed that the annual value of the rents and profits
of the land was fifty dollars.
The case was tried twice. On the first trial in the District
Court of Alameda County, the plaintiff put in evidence the
patent of the United States of the land to the Central Pacific
railroad, and a conveyance of the same by that company to
the plaintiff. The defendant then offered to prove that the
land was within the exterior boundaries of the Mexican grant
mentioned, and, therefore, reserved from the Congressional
grant to the railroad company The plaintiff objected to the
offered proof on the ground that the land was not subject to
predmption when the defendant entered upon it, the patent
of the United States having been previously issued, which was
conclusive in an action of ejectment. The objection was sustained, to which the defendant excepted, and judgment was
rendered for the plaintiff. Thereupon an appeal was taken
by the defendant to the Supreme Court of California, and in
January, 1881, the judgment was reversed, and the cause
remanded for a new trial. In April, 1883, the case again
came on for trial -in the Superior Court of Alameda County,
the successor to the District Court of that county, under the
new constitution of California, which went into operation on
the 1st of January, 1880. On that trial the evidence offered

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opimon of the Court.

by the defendant, which was excluded on the previous trial,
was admitted, and new testimony given bearing upon the
The
question of the reservation of the land in controversy
the
land
the
court
holding
that
obtained
a
judgment,
defendant
was claimed as a part of the Mexican grant mentioned, and
was reserved for its satisfaction. A motion for a new trial was
denied. An appeal was then taken from the order denying
the motion, and also from the judgment, to the Supreme
Court of the State, which affirmed both the order denying a
new trial and the judgment for the defendant, and for a review of the judgment the case was brought here on writ of
error.
Mr' A. B. B'owne, (with whom were _Mr, A. T Brdton
2-H . Waterman on the brief,) for plaintiff in error.
and .r
.b' .AXlchael .MAllany for defendant in error.
MR. JUsTIcE FIELD, after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
The defence upon which the defendant below relied on both
trials, was that the land patented to the railroad company
was within the boundaries of a Mexican grant, the validity of
which was at the time under consideration by the Federal
tribunals and was, therefore, reserved from sale when the
patent was issued. Evidence to establish this fact was offered
on the first trial, but rejected by the court, and for this alleged
error the judgment recovered by the plaintiff was reversed.
On the second trial the evidence rejected on the first trial
was received, and it was shown that the land patented to the
railroad company was within the exterior bounds of the Mexican grant, and that its validity was then under consideration
by the tribunals of the United States, and the court held that
it was, for that reason, reserved from sale and that the patent
therefor was unauthorized and void. The defendant having
taken up a preemption claim on the land, judgment was
rendered in his favor.

CARR v. QUIGLEY.
Opinion of the Court.

The Supreme Court of the State sustained this view of the
reservation of the land from sale and consequent appropriation
to the satisfaction of the Congressional grant to the railroad
company The question for our determination is whether, at
the time of the issue of the patent, the land was thus reserved.
The act of July 1, 1862, 12 Stat. 489, c. 120, provided for
the incorporation of the Union Pacific Railroad Company,
and made a grant of land to that company to aid in the construction of a railroad and telegraph line from the Missouri
River to the Pacific Ocean. Its provisions apply in terms to
that company, but the construction of other railroads is included within the objects contemplated by the act, and the
clauses relating. to the Union Pacific Railroad Company are
made applicable to them. The ninth section authorizes the
Central Pacific Railroad Company, a corporation of California,
to construct a railroad and telegraph line from the Pacific
Coast, at or near San Francisco, or the navigable waters of
the Sacramento River, to the eastern boundary of the State,
upon the same terms and conditions which were provided for
the construction of the railroad and telegraph line of the Union
Pacific. A similar grant of land, of the same extent and upon
like conditions, was made to the Central Pacific, and the rights
and obligations of the company were determined by the same
law
By the provisions of the third section, thus applied, there
was granted to that company, to aid in the construction of its
road and telegraph line, every alternate section of public land,
designated by odd numbers, to, the amount of five alternate
sections per mile on each side of its road on the line thereof
and within the limits of ten miles on each side "not sold, reserved, or otherwise disposed of by the United States, and to
which a premption or homestead claim may not have attached at the time the line of the road is definitely fixed "
Provded, That all mineral lands were excepted from the operation of the act, but where they contained timber, that timber was granted to the company
By the fourth section of the act, as amended by section six
of the act of 1864, it was provided "That whenever said

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

company shall have completed not less than twenty consecutive miles of any portion of said railroad and telegraph line,
ready for the service contemplated by this act, and supplied
with all necessary drains, culverts, viaducts, crossings, sidings,
bridges, turnouts, watering places, depots, equipments, furniture, and all other appurtenances of a first-class railroad, the
rails and all the other iron used in the construction and equipment of said road to be American manufacture of the best
quality, the President of the United States shall appoint three
commissioners to examine the same and report to him in
relation thereto, and if it shall appear to him that not less
than twenty consecutive miles of said railroad and telegraph
line have been completed and equipped in all respects as required by this act, then, upon certificate of said commissioners
to that effect, patents shall issue conveying the right and title
to said lands to said company, on each side of the road as far
as the same is completed, to the amount aforesaid, and
patents shall in like manner issue as each twenty miles of said
railroad and telegraph line are completed, upon certificate of
said commissioners."
The definite location of the road was fixed in January, 1865,
and the road was completed in all respects as required by the
act of Congress and accepted by the President prior to the
1st of June, 1869. The Mexican grant to Jose Noriega and
Robert Livermore was known by the name of "Las Pocitas,"
and as confirmed was described and bounded as follows, viz.
On the north by the Lomas de las Cuevas, on the east by the
Sierra de Buenos Ayres, on the south by the dividing line of
the establishment of San Jose, and on the west by the rancho
of Don Jose Dolores Pacheco, containing in all two square
leagues, a little more or less. The confirmation was of that
quantity if contained within the boundaries named, and if less
than that quantity was found to be contained therein, then
the confirmation was for the less quantity, and for all of the
described tract.
The grantees in February, 1852, petitioned the board of
land commissioners, created by the act of Congress of March
3, 1851, for a confirmation of the grant, and in February,

CARR v. QUIGLEY.
Opinion of the Court.

1854, it was confirmed with the description and condition
mentioned.
On appeal the decree was affirmed by the United States
District Court for the Northern District of California in February, 1859, to the same extent and for the same quantity and
under the same condition. On appeal the decree of the District Court was affirmed by the Supreme Court of the United
States in January, 1861, and its mandate was filed in the District Court in February, 1865, upon which an order was entered in that court that the claimants, the grantees named,
have leave to proceed upon the decree of the District Court as
a final decree.
Two official surveys were made of the land confirmed, one
in 1865 by the deputy United States surveyor-general of the
district. This survey, as appears on the maps, embraced within
the exterior boundaries nearly ten square leagues. It was disapproved by the Secretary of the Interior, because it embraced
more than two square leagues, and he directed that a new survey be made. A new survey was accordingly made, which
was approved by the surveyor-general and the Commissioner
of the Land Office, and, on the 6th of June, 1871, by the Secretary of the Interior. On the 20th of August, 1872, a patent
of the United States for the land, the survey of which was
thus approved, was issued to the grantees. The land in controversy in this case is not included in the land thus surveyed
and patented.
In Newhall v. Sanger, 92 U. S. 761, it was held that land
within the boundaries of a Mexmcan grant, while proceedings
were pending in the tribunals of the United States to determine its validity, was exempt from sale and pre~mption, and,
therefore, of appropriation under the land grant acts of the
United States in aid of the construction of railroads and telegraph lines. Those acts declared that the sections of land
granted were to be of public lands of the United States, and
by public lands were meant lands of the United States which
were open for sale and prefmption, and that of these public
lands there should be excepted such portions as had been sold
or reserved from sale or otherwise disposed of by the United
VOL. Cmx--42

OCTOBER TERlM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

States, or to which a preemption or homestead right had attached at the time of the definite location of the roads.
For some years after the decision in Newhall v Sanger it
was supposed that the reservation from such appropriation
was extended to all lands within the outboundaries of a -Mexican grant without reference to the actual quantity granted.
The interpretation given to the term "boundaries" used in the
opinion in that case led to this conclusion.
But the case of Unqted States v ilc-aughli, 12'1 U. S.
428, where it was attempted to extend the reservation from
sale to lands nearly one hundred miles square upon the ground
that that amount was within the exterior boundaries designated,
although the amount intended to be granted was only eleven
leagues, led to a consideration of the facts in lVewhall v Sanger, and to a better understanding of the import of its decision.
It then appeared that there was no allegation in the pleadings
of that case that the boundaries of the grant designated exceeded the actual amount intended to be granted. As appeared
by them, it was a grant of a specific quantity within boundaries which embraced no greater amount. The language used
with reference to the exemption of a grant of that character
evidently presented a different question from that of a grant
with boundaries embracing an area exceeding many times the
quantity actually granted. So in Unzted States v XfeLaughlin, the court considered the different kinds of grants of the
Mexican government, which were. 1, grants by specific boundaries, where the donee was entitled to the whole tract, 2,
grants of quantity, as of one or more leagues within a larger
tract described by what was called outboundaries, where the
donee was entitled to the quantity specified, and no more,
3, grants of a certain place or rancho by name, where the
donee was entitled to the whole tract, according to the boundaries given, or, if not given, according to its extent as shown
by previous possession. In the second class, where the grant
was of quantity within boundaries embracing a much larger
quantity, the grant was a float, to be located by the action of
the government before it could attach to any specific tract,
like the land warrants, as the court said, of the United States.

CARR v. QUIGLEY.
Opinion of the Court.

The grant in the McLaughlin case was a float, and, according
to the different interpretations of the outside boundaries, the
region embraced within them was fifty square leagues in the
one case and over eighty in the other, and the court pertinently
asked whether such an extensive region could be under an interdict, as reserved land, absolutely exempt from disposition
even by Congress, during the whole period covered by the litigation respecting the validity of the grant, which, if found
valid, was only for the quantity of eleven square leagues.
In that particular case the grant was found to be a wretched
fraud, but the court said "1Laying all this aside, however,
and looking at the claim as one fairly sub judice, we may
repeat our question, whether it can be possible that so great a
region of country was to be regarded as reserved from alienation for so small a cause -an ordinary eleven-league grant."
The grant of eleven square leagues out of a country seventy
or eighty miles in length, and from six to ten in width, containing over eighty square leagues, was, upon the theory of
reservation advanced, deemed to have the effect of retiring
from the supposed public domain the whole eighty leagues
and more for a period of years, no one could state how long.
The court did not consider that this view of the reservation
intended was reasonable, and observed that it was at the "option of the government, not of the grantee, to locate the quantity granted, and, of course, a grant by the government of
any part of the territory contained within the outside limits
of the grant only reduces by so much the area within which
the original grantee's proper quantity may be located. If the
government," added the court, "has the right to say where it
shall be located, it certainly has the right to say where it shall
not be located, and if it sells land to a third person at a place
within the general territory of the original grant, it is equivalent to saying that the quantity due to the original grantee is
not to be located there. In other words, if the territory comprehended in the outside limits and bounds of a Mexican grant
contains eighty leagues, and the quantity granted is only
ten leagues, the government may dispose of seventy leagues
without doingi any wrong to the original grantee." It ob-

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

served, it is true, that it was the practice in administering the
public lands to allow the original grantee to make his own
selection of the place where he will have the quantity located,
provided it could be located in one tract, but that was a matter
of favor and not of right.
In illustrating the serious, if not absurd, results which would
follow from a different view, the court referred to the grant
made by the Mexican government to President Yturbide in
1822 of twenty leagues square, or four hundred square leagues
of land, to be located in Texas. In 1835 the Mexican Congress
authorized his heirs to locate the land in New Mexico or in
Upper or Lower California. In 1841 it was decreed that it
should be located in Upper California-that is, the present
State of California. And the claim was actually presented to
the board of land commissioners and appealed to the District
Court, and thence to the Supreme Court. So, observed the
court, "according to the contention of the complainant in the
present case, all California was interdicted territory during
the pendency of that claim before the board and in the courts."
"We can well understand," the court added, "that Indian reservations and reservations for military and other public purposes
of the government should be considered as absolutely reserved
and withdrawn from that portion of the public lands which
are disposable to purchasers and settlers, for, in those cases,
the use to which they are devoted, and for which they are
deemed to be reserved, extends to every foot of the reservation.
The same reason applies to Mexican grants of specific tracts,
such as a grant for all the land within certain definite boundaries named, or all the land comprised in a certain rancho or
estate. But this reason does not apply to grants of a certain
quantity of land, within a territory named or described, containing a much larger area than the amount granted, and
where, as in the present case, the right of location within the
larger territory is in the government, and not in the grantee.
In such case, the use does not attach to the whole territory,
but only to a part of it, and to such part as the government
chooses to designate, provided the requisite quantity be appropriated."
0

CARR v. QUIGLEY.
Opinion of the Court.

So the court held that where a Mexican grant was for a
specific quantity within an area containing a much larger
quantity it was only the quantity actually granted which was

reserved from disposition by the government during the
examination of the validity of the grant, the remainder was
at its disposal as a part of the public domain. And in considering Newhall v Sanger the court said that "the opinion
in that case took no notice of the fact (which did not appear
in the record) that the grant was one of that class in which
the quantity granted was but a small part of the territory embraced within the boundaries named. It proceeded throughout as it would have done on the supposition that the grant
covered and filled up the whole territory described. It
simply dealt with and affirmed the general proposition that a
Mexican grant, while under judicial investigation, was not
public land open for disposal and sale, but was reserved
territory within the meaning of the law -a proposition not
seriously disputed."
So, m the present case, there was only reserved from sale
and appropriation by the government within the exterior
boundaries of the Mexican grant to Jose lNorega and Robert
Livermore so much land as would satisfy the quantity actually
granted to them, which was two leagues, and it was
competent for the government to grant the remainder of the
land within the exterior boundaries to whomsoever it nnght
choose. It was land open to sale by the government and
could have been appropriated to the railroad company, and
its patent to that company passed the land.
The Supreme Court of California acted upon the theory
that the exemption from sale extended to all lands within the
exterior boundaries of the grant instead of merely to the
amount specifically granted, but as we have shown this was
an erroneous view to be taken of the case after the decision
of United States v llcLaughlin. And Doolan v Ca'r,125
U S., at page 632, recognizes the doctrine of that decision.
If, therefore, the Mdxican grant in this case was valid, and it
has been so adjudged, there was reserved from sale only two
leagues to be selected under the direction and control of the

