OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Statement of the Case.

erly refused. All his evidence amounts to is that he wanted a
loan of money, and that the plaintiffs insisted upon a deed
and an agreement to reconvey, instead of a mortgage. But
defendant did not claim to have been imposed upon, deceived
or defrauded, and he had no right to a request based upon
this hypothesis.
The disposition we have made of these requests renders it
unnecessary to consider the other, and the judgment of the
court below is, therefore,
Affirmed.

PAULSEN v. PORTLAND.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF OREGON.
No. 183.

Argued and submitted March 28, 1893. -Decided

April 17, 1893.

In view of the notice actually given of the meetings of the freeholders
appointed to estimate the proportionate cost of a sewer in Portland,
Oregon, and to assess the proportionate share of the cost thereof upon
the several owners of property benefited thereby, and in view of the
construction placed upon the ordinance by the City Council, and in view
of the approval of the proceedings by the Supreme Court of the State
as being in conformity with the laws thereof, Held, that, notwithstanding the doubt arising from the lack of express provision for notice, the
requirements of the Constitution as to due process of law had not been
violated.

ON March 5,1887, the common council of the city of Portland
passed an ordinance, No. 5068, providing for the construction
of a sewer in the north part of the city, and known as Tanner
Creek sewer. In pursuance of that and subsequent ordinances
the sewer was constructed, and the cost thereof cast by a
special assessment upon the lots and blocks within a prescribed
district. The validity of this assessment was challenged by
this suit, the plaintiffs being lot owners in the sewer district.
The suit was commenced in the Circuit Court of the State of
Oregon for the county of Multnomah. That court sustained
a demurrer to an amended complaint, and dismissed it, and
this decree of dismissal was affirmed by the Supreme Court of
the State. 16 Oregon, 450.

PAULSEN v. PORTLAND.
Statement of the Case.

The burden of the complaint rested upon these allegations
"Said ordinance numbered 5068, approved March 5, 1887,
is unconstitutional and void, in this
"§ 121 of chapter 10 of the charter of the said city of
Portland, providing for the construction of sewers, under and
by virtue of which said ordinance numbered 5068 was passed,
is in violation of the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution of the United States, as it provides for taking private
property for public use without due process of law, and said
ordinance numbered 5068 is also unconstitutional and void, as
it determines arbitrarily and absolutely that the property
therein described is benefited by said Tanner Creek sewer
without giving to the owners of said property any notice or
opportunity to be heard upon that question. Said ordinance
numbered 5162, approved August 19, 1887, is unconstitutional
and void upon the same grounds as those upon which said
ordinance numbered 5068 is unconstitutional and void as aforesaid, and also because said ordinance numbered 5162 provides
for an assessment of the property therein named for the construction of said Tanner Creek sewer without providing for
any notice to the owners whose property is therein and thereby
assessed.
"Said ordinances and each of them and said assessment
were and are unconstitutional, illegal and void because -and
these plaintiffs aver the fact to be as now stated - plaintiffs
had not nor had any of them any notice of the said proceedings of the said common council or any opportunity to be
heard as to whether or not their property or the property of
any of them was or could be benefited by said sewer, or as to
the amount that was or should be assessed upon the several
parcels of property named in said ordinance numbered 5162.
"Said ordinances and each of them and said assessment
these
were and are illegal and void for the reason -and
plaintiffs aver the fact to be -that said common council and
the said viewers and each of them knew that a large proportion of the property described in said ordinances, including
the property of these plaintiffs, was and is a long distance
away from said Tanner Creek sewer, and never would or could

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Statement of the Case.

be benefited by said sewer, and that a considerable portion of
said property was lower in elevation than the bottom of said
sewer, and that it was physically impossible for said property
to be drained into said sewer or to be benefited by it in any
way
"And said ordinances and assessment and each of them
were and are a gross abuse of power by said common council
and in fraud of the rights of these plaintiffs.
"Said assessment is illegal and void and in violation of
§ 121 of chapter 10 of the charter of the said city of Portland,
because -and these plaintiffs aver the fact to be -that said
assessment was not made upon the property directly benefited
by said sewer, but was made indiscriminately upon a large
section of the city of Portland and without reference to the
benefits to the property therein contained."

Section 121 of the city charter is as follows
"The council shall have the power to lay down all necessary sewers and drains, and cause the same to be assessed on
the property directly benefited by such drain or sewer, but
the mode of apportioning estimated costs of improvement of
streets, prescribed in sections 112 and 113 of chapter 10 of

this act, shall not apply to the construction of such sewers and
drains, and when the council shall direct the same to be
assessed on the property directly benefited, such expense shall
in every other respect be assessed and collected in the same
manner as is provided in the case of street improvements
Pp'ovded, That the council may, at its discretion, appoint
three disinterested persons to estimate the proportionate share
of the cost of such sewer or drain to be assessed to the several
owners of the property benefited thereby, and in the construc-

tion of any sewer or drain in the city shall have the right to
use and divert from their natural course any and all creeks
or streams running through the city into such sewer or drain."
Oregon Session Laws, 1882, page 171.
Section 5 of ordinance 5068 commences "Sec. 5. The
streets and property within the district bounded and described as follows shall be sewered and drained into the Willamette River through the sewer in this ordinance provided

PAULSEN v. POIRTLAND.
Statement of the Case.

and ordered to be constructed along Tanner Creek and North
Eighth street, from B street, near the intersection of North
Fourteenth street to the Willamette River, to wit Beginning,"
and then, after defining the boundary of the sewer district,
declares "And as the lots and blocks, and parts of lots and
blocks, included within said district as above defined will be
drained and sewered both by surface drainage and underground sewerage, by and through the sewer in this ordinance
ordered to be located, constructed and put down, the said lots
and blocks, and parts of lots and blocks aforesaid, are hereby
declared to be directly benefited by such sewer and subject to assessment therefor, in proportion to the benefits received thereby,
as provided in section 121 of the city charter of the said city"
Section 12 is as follows.
"Sec. 12. That R. L. Durham, Charles G. Schramm and
H. W Monastes, disinterested persons, be and they are hereby
appointed viewers to estimate the proportionate share of the
cost of said sewer to be assessed to the several owners of
property benefited thereby in accordance with the provisions
of section 121 of the charter of said city and report the same
to the common council within sixty (60) days from the date of
the approval of this ordinance by the mayor. Said viewers
shall hold stated meetings in the office of the auditor and clerk
of said city, and all persons interested may appear before said
viewers and be heard in the matter of making said estimate."
Ordinance 5162 contains these provisions
"The city of Portland does ordain as follows
"See. 1. The common council of the city of Portland having by ordinance No. 5068 provided for the construction of a
sewer, together with the necessary catch-basins, man-holes,
lamp-holes and branches along Tanner Creek from North
Fourteenth and B streets to North Tenth and H streets,
thence along North Tenth street to I street, thence along I
street to North Eighth street, and thence along North Eighth
street to North Front street, and thence northeasterly to low
water in the Willamette River
"And having therein and thereby appointed three disinterested freeholders, viz., R. L. Durham, H. W Monastes and
VOL. CXLIX-3

OCTOBER TERME, 1892.
Statement of the Case.

Charles G. Schramm to estimate the proportionate share of the
cost of such sewer, to be assessed to the several owners of the
property benefited thereby, and said assessors having made
their report to the common council, which report being satisfactory is hereby adopted, said report being in words and
figure as follows, to wit
"To the hon. the common council of the city of Portland.
The undersigned appointed by your honor" GENTLEMEN
able body to assess the cost of constructing a brick sewer
along Tanner Creek from North Fourteenth and B streets to
North Tenth and H streets, thence along North Tenth street
to I street, thence along I street to North Eighth street,
thence along North Eighth street to North Front street,
thence northeasterly to low water in the Willamette River, as
provided by ordinance No. 5068, would respectfully beg leave
to submit this our report.
"We met at the office of the auditor and clerk and were
furnished with the plans, specifications and contract, from
which we have ascertained the probable costs to be 035,652.20,
dollars.
thirty-five thousand six hundred and fifty-two & "In accordance with the requirements of said ordinance No.
5068 we gave notice of our first stated meeting June 25, 1887,
at 6.30 o'clock P.r., (by publication of such notice in the Daily
News, the official paper of the city,) at which tine we met
and proceeded with our work, adjourning from day to .day
until the final completion of our labors. We have assessed
the cost of constructing said sewer to the several lots, parts of
lots and tracts of land included within the boundaries defined
by you in your ordinance No. 5068, in the several amounts as
shown by the following tabulated statement. [Omitted, per
stipulation.]
"SEc. 2. The auditor and clerk is hereby directed to enter a
statement of the assessment hereby made in the docket of city
liens, and cause notice thereof to be published in the manner
provided by the city charter.
"Passed the common council, August 17, 1887.
"W H. WooD, Auditor and Clerk.
19,
1887."
August
"Approved

PAULSEN v. PORTLAND.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

X.r' George H

THilliams for plaintiffs in error, submitted

on his brief.
We contend that section 121 of the city charter makes no
provision for notice of any kind to the property holders whose
property is to be assessed to pay for the construction of
sewers and drains, and is void, because it violates that clause
of the fourteenth amendment to the Constitution of the United
States which declares that no State shall deprive any person
of life, liberty or property without due process of law Stuart
v. Palmer,74 N. Y 183.
Several cases involving the constitutional validity of assessments have been before this court, and in every case, it is
believed, the court has affirmed or recognized the doctrine
that an act of the legislature providing for an assessment upon
real property must also, to be valid, provide for some kind of
notice to the property holder, or an opportunity for him to be
heard as to said assessment before it reaches the conclusiveness of a judgment. Davwdson v. N ew Orleans, 96 U. S. 97,
ifagar v Reclamation TDstrzct, 111 U S. '701, Spencer v
.Merchant, 125 U. S. 345, Lent v Tillson, 140 U. S. 316,
Palmer v -Mc.Mahon, 133 U S. 660.
See also the following, bearing upon these issues: Jordan
v Hfyatt, 3 Barb. 275, Wheeler v .Mills, 40 Barb. 644, Ireland v Rochester, 51 Barb. 414, Grffn v lixon, 38 Mississippi, 424, -Mulliganv Smith, 59 California, 206, Thomas v
Gan, 35 Michigan, 155, Darling v Gunn, 50 Illinois, 424,
Patten v Green, 13 California, 325, The State v A ewar, 25
N. J Law, (1 Dutcher,) 399, Same v Same, 31 N. J. Law,
(3 Vroom,) 360, State v Platnfeld, 38 N. J Law, (9 Vroom,)
95, State v Elizabeth, 37 N. J Law, (8 Vroom,) 353.
Our understanding is that in the construction of the city
charter of Portland, this court will be governed by the decisions of the Supreme Court of Oregon. Chscago, .Mihaukee
&c. Railway v Minnesota, 134 U. S. 418. That court holds,
in the case of Strowbr'dge v Portland, 8 Oregon, 67, approved in this case, that no notice is provided for and none is
necessary to persons whose property is to be assessed for the
construction of sewers.

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

This construction, then, is to be taken by this court as a
part of the city charter, and, therefore, the plain question
here presented is Can the real property of a citizen of Portland, Oregon, be constitutionally assessed one hundred or five
hundred or a thousand dollars, or any other sum, for the construction of a sewer in that city, and such property, if necessary be seized and sold to pay such assessment, without any
notice to the owner at any stage of the proceedings, or any
opportunity given him to be heard before any tribunal or court
upon the subject 2
Moreover, the question here is whether or not the Supreme
Court of the State of Oregon made a correct decision in this
case. That court decided that the charter did not make any
provision for notice to persons who are to be charged for the
expense of constructing a sewer, and that in such case no
notice is necessary, and this decision has not been overruled
by any argument or illustration in the case of The Zing Real
Estate Assoctat n v City of Portland,but will stand as the
law of the State of Oregon unless it is reversed by this court.
There is no alternative. This court must either affirm that
decision, and hold that no notice is required and none is necessary to persons whose property is to be charged for the construction of a sewer in the city of Portland, or it must, by a
reversal of that decision, decide that notice of some kind is
necessary under such circumstances.
We respectfully submit that this question ought to be put
at rest in an emphatic decision by this court. It is a vital and
far-reaching question, and seems not to be so fully settled as it
should be. Municipal corporations are multiplying indefinitely
in all parts of the United States. Towns of only a few hundred inhabitants are everywhere being incorporated as cities.
City governments are proverbial for their reckless extravagance in the expenditure of money They are more or less
influenced, and sometimes controlled, by selfish partisans and
unscrupulous jobbers. City taxation and assessments in some
cases approach the confiscation of private property Under
these circumstances, the citizen cannot be too carefully protected. The spirit of the Constitution and the claims of justice

PAULSEN vo. PORTLAND.
Opinion of the Court.

will never be fully recognized till the citizen has personal
notice served upon him, or public notice equivalent thereto, of
every proceeding in which he may be divested of life, liberty
or property
-Mr William T Mur for defendants in error.
MR.

JUSTicE BREwiz

delivered the opinion of the court.

The question is that of notice to the taxpayer. It is insisted.
that the Supreme Court held that section 121 did not provide
for notice, that such construction of the State statute is binding upon this court, and that we must consider the case as
though no notice was provided for. It is not entirely clear.
what construction has been placed upon section 121 by the
Supreme Court of Oregon. In the case of Strowbridge v.
Portland,decided in 1879, 8 Oregon, 67, 83, the provisions of
the city charter m these respects being then substantially like
those in the act of 1882, it was said by Judge Boise, delivering the opinion of the court
"The elaborate manner pointed out in the charter for
acquiring the authority to construct street improvements
does not apply to the construction of sewers. The latter
may be laid when, in the judgment of the city council, the
same shall be necessary They may be made without previous notice, the council alone being the judge of their
necessity"
This language is quoted with approval by Chief Justice
Thayer, in delivering the opinion of the court in this case.
Paulsen v Portland,16 Oregon, 450, 464. But on the petition
for a rehearing, which was denied by two judges to one, each
of the judges in favor of denying gave a brief opinion, and
Judge Strahan in his says:
"But it is objected that neither the charter nor ordinance
expressly provides for notice, and that, therefore, though notice
may have been in fact given, the constitutional objection of
want of notice is not met.
"Sections 95, 96, 97, 98 and 99 of the charter all provide
for and regulate notice in case of improvement of streets, and

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

§ 121, which authorizes sewers, provides, among other things,
'and when the council shall direct the same (costs) to be
assessed on the property directly benefited, such expense shall
in every other respect be assessed and collected in the same
manner as is provided in the case of street assessments.' The
charter expressly provides for notice in case of street assessments, and § 121 makes the provisions applicable in case of
sewers where the expense is ordered by the council to be made
a charge on the property directly benefited."
In the subsequent case in the same court of Zing Real
Estate A ssocatwtn v Portland,decided in 1892, and reported
in 31 Pac. iRep. 482, it was held that. "The provision that
such expense shall be assessed in the same manner as is provided in the case of street improvements, necessarily makes
such sections, in regard to street improvements, with the exceptions noted, a part of section 121, for that purpose." It
would seem from this that the final construction placed by the
Supreme Court was to the effect that the charter requires notice
as much in the matter of sewers as of street improvements.
But were it otherwise, while not questioning that notice to
the taxpayer in some form must be given before an assessment
for the construction of a sewer can be sustained, as in any
other demand upon the individual for a portion of his property,
we do not think it essential to the validity of a section in the
charter of a city granting power to construct sewers that
there should in terms be expressed either the necessity for or
the time or manner of notice. The city is a miniature State,
the council is its legislature, the charter is its constitution,
and it is enough if, in that, the power is granted in general
terms, for when granted, it must necessarily be exercised subject to all limitations imposed by constitutional provisions,
and the power to prescribe the mode of its exercise is, except
as restricted, subject to the legislative discretion of the council. Thus, in the case of Gilmore v Hentig, 33 Kansas, 156,
it was held thus. "Where a statute authorizes a city to provide for the construction of sewers and drains, and to tax the
costs thereof upon the adjacent property owners, but does not
require that any notice shall be given to the property owners,

PAULSEN v. POTLAND.
Opinon of the Court.

held, that such failure to require notice does not render the
statute unconstitutional or void, but notice must nevertheless
be given, and the city would have a broad discretion with
reference to the kind of notice and the manner of giving the
same." See also Oleveland v. Tzp, 13 R. 1. 50, Dav s v
Lynchburg, 84 Virginia, 861, Williams v Detroit,2 Michigan, 560, Gatch v. -Des7I1ones, 63 Iowa, 718, Balimore &
Ohw Railroad v Pittsburgh, Wheeling &o. Railroad, 17
W Va. 812, 835.
But it is further insisted that, even if the general grant of
power in a charter to do a work of this kind is sufficient without an express provision in it as to notice to the taxpayers,
the city in the execution of that power must by ordinance
provide for notice and prescribe its terms, and that these
ordinances contained no such provision. Here again we
are met with an apparent difference in opinion of the two
judges of the Supreme Court of Oregon, concurring in the
judgment in favor of the city The Chief Justice seems to
consider the matter of notice immaterial, relying upon the
doctrine of stare deciszs, that the right of the city to carry
through such a work without any notice had been settled years
ago in the Strowbrzdge Case, while Judge Strahan makes
these observations
"In addition to this, § 12 of ordinance No. 5068 provides
that the viewers shall hold stated meetings at the office of the
auditor and clerk of said city, and all persons interested may
appear before said viewers and be heard in the matter of
making said estimates.
"I think it would be a reasonable construction of this ordinance to hold that the right to be heard implies that notice
shall be given, and, if this be so, the ordinance does provide
for notice by necessary implication.
"That which is implied in a statute is as much a part of it
as what is expressed. .linardv Douglas County, 9 Oregon,
206."
But what was in fact done by the city 2 By ordinance
5068 it ordered the construction of a sewer, and directed what
area should be drained into that sewer, and created a taxing

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

district out of that area. For these, no notice or assent by the
taxpayer was necessary A sewer is constructed in the exercise of the police power for the health and cleanliness of the
city, and the police power is exercised solely at the legislative
will. So also the determination of a territorial district to be
taxed for a local improvement is within the province of legisMillardv ,resbury,14 Wall. 676, ipencer
lative discretion.
v .Yerchant, 125 U S. 345, 355. By the same ordinance the
city also provided that the cost of the sewer should be distributed upon the property within the sewer district, and
appointed viewers to estimate the proportionate share which
each piece of property should bear. Here, for the first time
in proceedings of this nature, where an attempt is made to
cast upon his particular property a certain proportion of the
burden of the cost, the taxpayer has a right to be heard. The
ordinance named a place at which the viewers should meet,
directed that they should hold stated meetings at that place,
and that all persons interested might appear and be heard by
them in the matter of making the estimate. The viewers,
upon their appointment, gave notice by publication in the
official paper of the city of the time of their first meeting.
Notice by publication is a sufficient notice in proceedings of
this nature. Lent v Tillson, 140 U S. 316, 328. As the
form of the notice and the time of its publication are not
affirmatively disclosed in the complaint, it must be assumed
that there was no defect in respect to these matters. The
precise objection is, that although proper and sufficient notice
may have been given, it was not in terms prescribed by the
ordinance appointing the viewers. But, as held by the Supreme
Court of Oregon in the case referred to, .finard v Douglas Co.,
9 Oregon, 206, that which is implied in a statute is as much a
part of it as that which is expressed, and where a statute or
an ordinance provides for stated meetings of a board, designates
the place at which the meetings are to be held, and directs that
all persons interested in the matter may be heard before it, it
is, as said by Judge Strahan, not a strained interpretation that
it is implied thereby that some suitable notice shall be given to
the parties interested.

PAULSEN v. PORTLAND.
Opinion of the Court.

But, further, the viewers made formal report to the council
of what they had done, stating that they had, in accordance
with the requirements of ordinance 5068, given notice by publication, and the council, in the subsequent ordinance 5162,
recites that their report is satisfactory and adopted. In other
words, the council by this latter ordinance approved the construction placed by the viewers upon the first, to the effect
that it required notice. It would seem that when notice was
in fact given, notice whose sufficiency is not challenged, a construction put by the council upon the scope and effect of its
own ordinance should be entitled to respect in any challenge
of the regularity of the proceedings had under that ordinance.
It is settled that, if provision is made "for notice to and hearing of each proprietor, at some stage of the proceedings, upon
the question what proportion of the tax shall be assessed upon
his land, there is no taking of his property without due process of law" .. M illen v Anderson, 95 U. S. 37, Davzdsom
v Noew Orleans, 96 U. S. 97, HEagar v 1?eclamation .Distzt,
111 U. S. 701, Spencer v. Merchant, 125 U S. 345. If,
before the viewers had in fact met, yet after they had published notice, the council had passed an ordinance reciting an
approval of that act of notice, it could hardly be doubted that
the full requirements of law as to notice were satisfied.
Because this approval was not made until after the hearing
before the viewers, is it thereby worthless, of no validity 2
And can this court say, when those proceedings have been
sustained by the Supreme Court of the State, that rights guaranteed by the federal Constitution have been stricken down,
and that these individuals have been deprived of their property without due process of law 2
Another matter may be. mentioned The second section of
ordinance 5162 directed the ordinary publication of notice of
the assessment. The charter, section 102, required a "docket
of city liens," in which was entered, first, the description of
each piece of property assessed, second, the name of the
owner, or that the owner is unknown, and, third, the sum
assessed upon-such piece of property, and the date of the
entry; and by section 104 it was provided that "a sum of

OCTOBER TERM-,

1892.

Opinion of the Court.

money assessed for the improvement of a street cannot be collected until, by order of the council, ten days' notice thereof
is given by the auditor, by publication in a daily newspaper
published in the city of Portland. Such notice must substantially contain the matters required to be entered in the docket
of city liens concerning such assessment."
Now, without deciding that this notice is sufficient notice to
bring the proceedings within "due process of law," it is worthy of remark that during the ten days of publication, made
as required by said section 104 and section 2 of ordinance
5162, the plaintiffs did not challenge the regularity of the proceedings or apply to the council for an inquiry into the justness of the apportionment, nor did they commence any suit
until a month after the time when warrants for the collection
of delinquent assessments had been ordered by the council.
In other words, only after payment had been made by a portion of the taxpayers did these plaintiffs ask any relief.
Without continuing this inquiry any further, we are of the
opinion that, notwithstanding the doubt arising from the lack
of express provision for notice in ordinance 5068, it cannot be
held, in view of the notice which was given, of the construction placed upon this ordinance by the council thereafter, and
of the approval by the Supreme Court of the proceedings as
in conformity to the laws of the State, that the provisions of
the federal Constitution, requiring due process of law, have
been violated.
The judgment is, therefore,
Affrmed.
MR. JusricE FIELD did not hear the argument or take part
in the decision of this case.

