HOBBLE v. JENNISON.
Statement of the Case.

portation in question in this case is that it is "old scrap or
refuse india-rubber, which has been worn out by use and is fit
only for remanufacture."
The decision below was correct, and the judgment is
A4fi ned.

HOBBLE v. JENNISON.
ERROR

TO THE CIRCUIT

COURT

OF THE UNITED

STATES FOR THE

EASTERN DISTRICT OF MICHIGAN.
No. 270. Submitted April 27, 1893.-Decided May 10, 1893.

An assignee for Michigan, of a patent for an improvement in pipes, made,
sold and delivered in Michigan, pipes made according to the patent,
knowing that they were to be laid in the streets of a city in Connecticut,
a territory the right for which the seller did not own under the patent,
and they were laid in that city Held, under Adams v. Burke, 17 Wall.
453, that the seller was not liable, in an action for infringement, to the
owner of the patent for Connecticut.

THIS was an action at ,aw, brought in the Circuit Court of
the United States for the Eastern District of Michigan, in
August, 1886, by Isaac S. Hobbie and John A. Hobbe. The
original defendants were Charles E. Jennison and Isaac H.
Hill. The defendant Hill appeared and then withdrew his
appearance, and the suit was discontinued as to him and
proceeded as against Jennison. The action was brought for
the infringement of letters patent of the United States, No.
45,201, granted to Arcalous Wyckoff, November 22, 1861, for
an improvement in pipes for gas, water, etc., for seventeen
years from that day The plaintiffs had become, from May
31, 1876, the owners of the patent for the States of Maine,
New Hampshire, Vermont, Rhode Island, Massachusetts,
Connecticut, New York, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Delaware, Maryland, Virginia, and West Virginia, and the District
of Columbia. The declaration alleged that Jennison, on June
12, 1880, and on divers days between that day and November

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Statement of the Case.

22, 1881, at Hartford, Connecticut, and elsewhere in the plaintiffs' territory, and without their license or consent, made and
used, and vended to others to be used, the patented invention,
and within those dates did ship from Bay City, Michigan, to
the Hartford Steam Company, of Hartford, Connecticut, large
quantities of wooden pipe embodying the patented invention,
with intent that the same should be laid and used at Hartford,
and thus infringed the right of the plaintiffs under the patent,
to their damage $5000.
The defendant joined issue, a trial by jury was duly waived,
and the case was tried before Judge Brown, the District
Judge, now a member of this court. He found in favor of the
defendant, and a judgment in his favor for costs was entered.
The opinion of Judge Brown is reported in 40 Fed. Rep. 887.
The Circuit Court found the following facts:
"1. That, during all the times hereinafter mentioned, the
plaintiffs in the action were assignees and owners of letters
patent No. 45,201, dated November 22, 1864, granted to
Arcalous Wyckoff for an improved pipe for gas, water, etc.,
for New York, New England, and all the Eastern States north
of the Carolinas, and carried on business as manufacturers of
the patented pipe at Tonawanda, in the State of New York,
with sufficient facilities to supply the market in all the territory owned by them, and that, at the time of the sale of the
pipe or casings hereinafter mentioned, defendant's firm was
aware of the plaintiffs' title to said patent for the State of
Connecticut.
"2. That the firm of Ayrault, Jennison & Co., which was
composed of the defendant, Susan Hill, and one Miles Ayrault,
was the assignee and owner of the same patent for the State
of 'Michigan, and, during the greater part of the year 1880,
manufactured and sold the patented pipe at Bay City, in the
State of Michigan, to various persons.
"3. That, in the year 1880, the firm of Andrew IHarvey &
Son did business in Detroit, Michigan, as machinists and
manufacturers of valve fittings and other supplies.
"4. That, in the fore part of 1880, the Hartford Steam Co.,
a corporation organized, existing, and doing business under the

HOBBLE v. JENNISON.
Statement of the Case.

laws of the State of Connecticut, at Hartford, in said State,
undertook the project of laying down lines of steam-pipe
apparatus for heating purposes in the streets of said Hartford,
and that they had considerable correspondence with said
Harvey & Son as to the best prices they could get for pipe
casings and iron pipes, and also as to the best terms for freight
from Bay City, Michigan, and elsewhere to Hartford, Connecticut, that, on the 5th day of May, 1880, said Hartford
Steam Co., which had been negotiating for several weeks with
Harvey & Son concerning the said project, completed a contract with them to lay down in Hartford the said steamsupply apparatus.
"5. That said Harvey & Son entered upon the performance
of said job at Hartford as the agent and under the directions
of the said Hartford Company, that they were also employed
and acted as the agent of said Hartford Steam Supply Company in obtaining for them the best prices they could in the
purchase of iron and wooden pipes, and in obtaining the best
rates they could for freight from Michigan or elsewhere, and
in obtaining rebates in freight when necessary, and that said
steam company relied upon their judgment in said matters,
and that, in all their negotiations and dealings with Ayrault,
Jennison & Co., they acted on behalf of, and as the agents
merely of, said Hartford Steam Co.
" 6. That after said Hartford Co. had perfected said contract with said Harvey & Son, they sent various written orders,
during the year 1880, by mail, to the address of said defendant at Bay City, Michigan, to ship to them at Hartford, Connecticut, certain quantities of wooden piping, that said defendants accepted the same and manufactured said piping at
their factory under said patents and in conformity with the
description and covered by the claim of said Wyckoff patent,
and sold and delivered the same to the said Hartford Co. on
board the cars at Bay City, Michigan, addressed to them, and
that they had nothing to do with said piping after the delivery
of the same on the cars at Bay City, that said Hartford Co.
paid the freight thereon from Bay City to Hartford and sent
drafts for the payment of said piping to defendants at Bay

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

City, that none of the wooden pipes used in the laying of
said steam-supply apparatus at Hartford were sold to said
Harvey & Son, but were all sold to said Hartford Steam Co.,
and that any orders made by Harvey & Son were made
merely as the agents of the Hartford Steam Co.
"T. That said piping so purchased was laid down in Hartford during the term of said patent, and that during the negotiations connected with the sales and shipment of said pipe or
casing defendant's firm knew that it was for use in the construction of steam-heating works in the city of Hartford, State
of Connecticut, and that said Harvey & Son were to lay said
pipe in Hartford.
"8. That the accounts for said sales to said Hartford Co. were
kept on the books of said Ayrault, Jennison & Co. in the
name of the Hartford Steam Co., and that a statement of the
entire account from their books of said sales was sent to them
at the close of the year.
"9. That said pipe or casing was laid down as a part of
said works during the life of said patent, in the summer and.
fall of 1880, under said Harvey's directions, in the streets of
Hartford.
"10. That by the acts and doings of defendant's firm in the
premises, as above stated, the plaintiffs sustained damage, and
if any recovery were permissible under the rules of law, they
would be entitled to an inquiry to ascertain the amount of
such damage, based on the testimonv introduced by said
plaintiffs."
As a conclusion of law from the foregoing facts, the court
found that the plaintiffs were not entitled to recover in the
action. The plaintiffs excepted to the conclusion of law and
to the judgment, and brought a writ of error.
.M

Tames A. Allen for plaintiffs in error.

The hindrance to carrying out the views of the court below
on the merits of the case, was found in the authority of Adains
v Burke, 17 Wall. 453. The plaintiffs in error seek on this
appeal a review of the application which has been made of

HOBBIE v. JENNISONT.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

Adams v Burke, to this case, rather than of the essential
doctrine of that case. The contention of the dissenting members of this court in that cause was that use of a patented
article lawfully purchased of an assignee of specific territory
could only be had within such territory and in no case beyond
or outside it within the United States, and that, as to use of
the thing patented, the purchaser only acquired the right to
such use within the territory held by the seller. A case may
possibly arise in which this court will be called on to revise or
modify the ruling of the majority of this court in deciding
against this contention, but it is our view that the present
case does not involve it. In Adams v Burke, it is assumed
that the patented coffin-lids were first lawfully sold to the purchaser without condition or restriction by assignees of the
patent for the territory of Boston and vicinity, and then the
question is presented whether, as an incident of such a lawful
sale, the buyer could use outside the limits of the title of the
assignor the article so lawfully and rightfully purchased.
The case was heard on bill andplea, and the plea, which was
accepted as true, and which was entitled to be liberally construed in favor of the pleader, expressly stated that the coffins
containing the invention were manufactured by Lockhart &
Seelye within a circle whose radius was ten miles, having the
city of Boston as its centre, and sold within said circle by said
Lockhart & Seelye without condition or restriction. The
validity of the sale by Lockhart & Seelye was in that case
assumed throughout, and no contest made upon it, only the
effect and incidents of such a lawful sale were disputed and
considered. There was no showing that the sellers sold the
patented coffin-lids for use in other terrtory, or that they
knew of or had in view any such use. In both stages of this
case, in all references made to it, the lawfulness of the sale by
Lockhart & Seelye to Burke was conceded and the dispute
was whether or not, the sale and purchase being valid and
lawful, as an incident thereof the purchaser might use the
goods in other territory In the present case the lawfulness,
as against the plaintiffs in error, of the alleged sale of the
patented pipe by Ayrault, Jennison & Company in the actual

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

circumstances of such sale, is exactly what is contested, the
claim of the plaintiffs being that such sale and the shipments
thereunder expressly for use wtthbn the territory of the plant fs, constituted an invasion upon the rights of the plaintiffs
and as against them were unlawful. Actual sale, delivery
and acceptance of the pipe at Bay City for general use, would
be one thing, a form of delivery at Bay City with acceptance
at Hartford, and knowledge and intent on the part of the
seller that the sole use would be at Hartford, and shipments
on that basis and understanding as against the plaintiffs, in
our view would not constitute a lawful sale of the pipe at
Bay City The transaction would be treated in the light of
its purpose and effect as a raid or invasion on the plaintiffs'
territory and an attempt to displace and intrude upon his
rightful market. If the defendants sought protection in such
a transaction through a mere arrangement that delivery should
be on cars at Bay City, the shield would be unavailing. The
law would stamp the transaction with its real attributes and
deem it unlawful.
The general current of decisions in the Circuit Courts has
shown no inclination to extend the doctrine of Adams v
Burke, by loose or liberal interpretations. In those courts it
has been repeatedly ruled that a sale in the territory of one
assignee for the purpose of selling again to users in the territory
of another assignee was unlawful. CaliforraElectrical lorks
v. Finck, 47 Fed. Rep. 583, Standard Folding Bed Co. v
feeler, 37 Fed. Rep. 693, Hatch v Adams, 22 Fed. Rep. 434,
Hatch v Hall, 30 Fed. Rep. 613.
.lr

George H. Lothroy for defendant in error.

MR.

JUSTIcE

BLATOHFORD,

after stating the case, delivered

the opinion of the court.
As a result of the findings of fact, the Circuit Court held
that the sale and delivery of the pipe by the defendant were
made at Bay City, Michigan, but that, in view of the decision
of this court in Adams v Burke, 17 Wall. 453, the defendant

HOBBIE v. JENNTISON
Opinion of the Court.

could not be held as an infringer by reason of his knowledge
that the pipe was to be used in a territory of which the plaintiffs held the monopoly The Circuit Court said that, in the
case of Adams v. Burke, an undertaker had purchased patented coffin-lids from certain manufacturers who held the right
from the patentee to manufacture and sell within a circle whose
radius was ten miles, having the city of Boston as a centre,
that the undertaker lived outside of that circle, and within a
territory owned by the plaintiff under the patent, and he made
use of the coffin-lids in his business, that the owner of the
territory in which the undertaker carried on his business
brought suit against him as an infringer, and it was held by
this court that, the sale having been made by a person who
had full right to make, sell, and use the invention within his
own territory, such sale carried with it the title to the use of
the machine without as well as within such territory, that the
action in that case was brought against the user, but this court
announced a principle of law which was equally applicable to
the seller, that if the user of the article was not liable to the
patentee, it was because he purchased it of a person who had
the legal right to sell it, that if it was legal for him to buy, it
was equally legal for the other party to sell, and that, in the
opinion of this court, in the case, as well as in the dissenting
opinion, it was stated, in substance, that the question raised
was whether an assignment of a patented invention for a
limited district conferred upon the assignee the right to sell
such patented article to be used outside of such limited district.
The Circuit Court further said that there was no evidence in
Adams v Burke that the sale was made under the belief on
the part of the seller that the article was to be used within his
territory, and that the case was authority for the broad proposition, that the sale of a patented article by an assignee within
his territory carries the right to use it everywhere, notwithstanding the knowledge of both parties that a use outside of
the territory is intended.
We understand that to be the true interpretation of the
decision in Adams v Burke. It is said in the opinion in that
case, that when the patentee, or the person having his rights,

OCTOBER TERMI, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

sells a machine or instrument whose sole value is in its use, he
receives the consideration for its use and parts with the right
to restrict that use, that the patentee, or his assignee, having
in the act of sale received all the royalty or consideration which
he claims for the use of his invention in that particular machine
or instrument, it is open to the use of the purchaser without
further restriction on account of the monopoly of the patentee,
that, although the right of the assignees of the coffin-lid patent
to manufacture, to sell, and to use the coffin-lids was limited
to the circle of ten miles around Boston, a purchaser from
them of a single coffin acquired the right to use that coffin for
the purpose for which all coffins are used, that, so far as the
use of it was concerned, the patentee had received his consideration, and it was no longer within the monopoly of the
patent, that it would be to engraft a limitation upon the right
of use, not contemplated by the statute nor within the reason
of the contract, to say that it could only be used within the
ten-mile circle, and that, whatever might be the rule when
patentees subdivided territorially their patents, as to the exclusive right to make or to sell within a limited territory, this
court held that, in the class of machines or implements it had
described, when they were once lawfully made and sold, there
was no restriction on their use to be implied, for the benefit of
the patentee or his assignees or licensees.
The plaintiffs in error contend that the decision in Adams
v Burke is not applicable to the present case, that in Adams
v Burke it was assumed that the patented coffin-lids were first
lawfully sold to the purchaser, without condition or restriction,
by assignees of the patent for the territory of Boston and
vicinity, that then the question was presented whether, as an
incident of such a lawful sale, the buyer could use outside of
the limits of the territory of the assignees the article so law
fully purchased, that it was not shown in that case that the
sellers sold the patented coffin-lids for use in other territory, or
knew of, or had any interest in such use, that, in the case now
before us, the lawfulness, as against the plaintiffs, of the alleged
sale of the patented pipe by the defendant, in the actual circumstances of such sale, was contested, the claim of the plain-

HOBBIE v. JENNISON.
Opinion of the Court.

tiffs being that such sale and the shipment thereunder, expressly
for use within the territory of the plaintiffs, constituted an
invasion of their rights and were unlawful as against the
plaintiffs, and that actual sale, delivery, and acceptance of
the pipe at Bay City for actual use would be one thing, but a
form of delivery at Bay City, with an acceptance at Hartford,
and knowledge and intention on the part of the defendant that
the sole use would be at Hartford, and shipments on that basis
and understanding, would not constitute a lawful sale of the
pipe at Bay City, as against the plaintiffs.
But we are of opinion that the case of Adams v Burke
cannot be so limited, that the sale was a complete one at Bay
City, and that neither the actual use of the pipes in Connecticut, or a knowledge on the part of the defendant that they
were intended to be used there, can make him liable. Adams
v. Bu kce, in the particular in question, is cited with approval
by this court in Bt rdsell v Sbaliol, 112 U S. 485, 487, IVade
v. Xetcayf, 129 U. S. 202, 205, and Boesch v r'qf, 133 U S.
697, 703.
The authorities which are cited on the part of the plaintiffs,
holding that where a person makes one element of a patented
combination, with the intent that other persons shall supply
the other elements and thus complete the combination, he is
guilty of infringement because he contributes to it, establish a
doctrine applicable to the case of a naked infringer. But in
the present case, the defendant was not such an infringer,
because he had a right under the patent to make, use, and
vend the patented article in the State of Michigan, and the
article was lawfully made and sold there. The pipes in question were not sold by the Hartford Steam Company in Connecticut, but were merely used there, and necessarily perished
in the using.
It is easy for a patentee to protect himself and his assignees,
when he conveys exclusive rights under the patent for particular territory He can take care to bind every licensee or
assignee, if he gives him the right to sell articles made under
the patent, by imposing conditions which will prevent any
other licensee or assignee from being interfered with. There

