OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Counsel for Defendant in Error.

v Sche'tmer, 23 How 235, Shezrburn v Cordova, 24 How 423,
V7ktehead v Shattuck, 138 U S. 146, 152, Scott v .Neely, 140
U S. 106, Smyth v NY 0 Canal & Bankzng Co., 141 U S.
656.
But, further, the defendant contends that by the state law
the lien was limited to one acre of ground. The plaintiff
claims that by virtue of his contract and the filing of his
statement of lien he was entitled to a decree sub3ecting a tract
of twenty acres to the satisfaction of his debt. He, therefore,
claims rights of an equitable nature arising from something
more than the statute, and based partly upon his contract.
Certainly such a claim as that is one of an equitable nature,
and to be ad3udicated only in a court of equity
These are all the matters of importance presented. We see
no substantial error in the record, and the decree is
Affirmed.

LOEBER v. SOtROEDER.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE OF MARYLAND.
ito. 1280.

Submitted May 1, 1893.-Decided May 10, 1893.

A writ of error will not lie to review an order of the highest court of a
State overruling a motion to quash afiertfacias. The refusal to quash a
writ is not a final judgment within the contemplation of the judiciary
acts of the general government.
It is settled that the attempt, for the first time, to raise a Federal question
after judgment and on petition for rehearing, comes too late. The
motion in this case, to quash the fierb faczas on the ground that the order
of the court directing it to issue was void, stands upon no better footing
in such respect than a petition for rehearing would have done.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

On motion to dismiss or affirm.
XM L. P Jlen nghausen and M'r X. 1R. Walter, for defendant in error, in support of the motion.

LOEBER v. SCHROEDER.
Opimon of the Court.

.l

William R1. Colton, for plaintiff in error, opposing.

Mni. JusTicE. J~cnsox delivered the opinion of the court.
This writ of error to the Court of Appeals of the State of
Maryland is brought to review and reverse a judgment of that
court affirming an order of Circuit Court No. 2, of Baltimore
city, overruling a motion of the plaintiff in error to quash a
writ off.fj . issued against him in pursuance of a decree entered in the Court of Appeals in April, 1892. The defendant
in error moves to dismiss the cause for want of jurisdiction.
This motion is based on two grounds, viz. First, that a writ
of error will not lie to an order overruling a motion to quash
an execution, because it is not a final judgment or decree
within the meaning of the Federal statutes; secondly, that no
Federal question is involved in the case.
It appears from the record that the defendant in error,
J Hlenry Schroeder, as administrator of Catherine Loeber, deceased, on July 12, 1890, filed his bill of complaint in Circuit
Court No. 2, of Baltimore city, against the plaintiff in error,
John Loeber, in which it was alleged that the plaintiff's intestate in 1882 loaned to her husband the sum of $8000, being a
part of her separate estate, on condition that he should pay
said sum of money, on her death, to her children, and that said
John Loeber, who was the husband of the intestate, agreed to
take said money upon that condition as a loan from his wife.
The complaint further charged that the defendant John Loeher had never repaid said sum of money, and that he denied
that the same was a part of the estate of his deceased wife,
and prayed for an order of the court directing and requiring
that he should bring said money into court to be invested in
the name of his deceased wife's children, that the same might
be declared a lien upon property described in the bill which
had been improved with the fund borrowed, and for such
further relief as the nature of complainant's case might require.
The defendant answered this bill and denied that his wife
bad ever loaned him the amount stated in the bill, or any part
thereof, and denied all indebtedness to the wife or her estate.

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

He further set up in his answer that the complainant had
failed to make proper parties to his bill, and that no case was
stated therein of which the court could take jurisdiction.
On the issues thus presented, proofs were taken, and upon
hearing of the case May 21, 1891, Circuit Court No. 2, of Baltimore city, being of opinion that the complainant had no
interest whatever in the matter in controversy, dismissed the
bill without prejudice to any proceedings that proper parties
might be advised to take. From this decree the complainant
prosecuted an appeal to the Court of Appeals of the State,
which, on January 28, 1892, reversed the decree of the Circuit
Court, and entered a decree in favor of the complainant, as
administrator of Mrs. Loeber, for $8000 and costs, which
amount said court found from the testimony Loeber had received from his wife, and undertook to invest for her benefit
in certain houses which belonged to him. The Court of Appeals, while holding that the undertaking to invest the money
in certain specified property was a contract within the fourth
section of the statute of frauds, and for that reason could not
be specifically performed, nevertheless held that a court of
equity ought to give relief by decree for the amount of money
which he had received from his wife. A decree was accordingly entered against Loeber for the sum of $8000. Subsequently, after entry of that decree Loeber moved the Court of
Appeals for a reargument of the case on the grounds that the
bill alleged a loan from Mrs. Loeber to him upon the under
taking and promise to pay the same to her children, but
alleged no other contract or undertaking on his part, that the
complainant failed to prove the alleged contract, but did
prove in the opinion of the court another contract, viz., that
"John Loeber undertook to invest his wife's money for her
benefit in certain houses which belonged to him," and as that
contract could not be enforced, the court thereupon decreed,
because of the statute of frauds, a repayment of the money
received by him, and it was claimed that this latter contract,
on which this decree was based, was not alleged in the bill,
and that the bill stated no case within the jurisdiction of the
court below, or of the Court of Appeals.

LOEBER v. SCHROEDER.
Opinion of the Court.

This motion for reargument was overruled, the Court of
Appeals holding that the case was within the jurisdiction of
the court below, and that whatever variance there may have
been between the allegations of the bill and the proof in the
case the Court of Appeals was authorized under the statutes
and decisions of the State (which were specially cited and
referred to) to enter a decree according to the testimony,
without regard to the special averments of the bill. The
Court of Appeals rested its action and decision mainly upon
the fifth section of the act of 1832, forming the thirty-fourth
section of Article V of the code, which provides that "on an
appeal from a court of equity no objection to the competency
of a witness, or to the admissibility of evidence, or to the
sufficiency of the bill or petition, or to any account stated or
reported in said cause, shall be made in the Court of Appeals,
unless it shall appear by the record that such objection was
made by exceptions filed in the court from which said appeal
shall have been taken." The testimony in the case was not
excepted to, and the appellate court in its construction of this
provision of the code held that it was bound to give effect to
the testimony, the court saying "It is no matter whether
the averments of the bill cover the case proved in evidence
or not. We are obliged to decree according to the matters
established by the proofs. The statute (quoted) has been frequently construed, and the practice under it is well establislied." After citing various authorities construing said
section, the court proceeds "It is, therefore, very clear that
it was our duty to consider the evidence, and make such a
decree as it required, without regard to the averments of the
bill." The court further held that the administrator succeeded
to the right of action on personal contracts made with his
intestate, and had the right to sue upon the one in question
before Circuit Court No. 2, of Baltimore city
The Court of Appeals having denied for these reasons a
rehearing, on April 28, 1892, issued its order for a f#emi famas
against Loeber for the amount decreed returnable to Circuit
Court No. 2. On April 29, 1892, Loeber entered a motion
before said Circuit Court to quash this writ for the following

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

reasons Because the decree on which the writ issued and the
writ were void, because said writ would deprive the defendant
of his property without due process of law, and because it was
issued in violation of the Constitution of the United States
and amendments thereto, because section 3-1 of Article V of
the Code of Public General Laws, in so far as it requires the
Court of Appeals to make their decision on the evidence without regard to the bill or averments of the complaint, was
contrary to the Constitution of the United States and amendments thereto, and laws passed in pursuance thereof, and was
therefore void.
The Circuit Court No. 2, on May 21, 1892, dismissed this
motion and the petition of the defendant to quash the writ of
From this order of dismissal Loeber prosecuted
Artfaas.
an appeal to the Court of Appeals, which, in November, 1892,
affirmed the order of the Circuit Court, holding that section
34 of Article V of the Code of Public General Laws, under
and by virtue of which the Court of Appeals had made a
decision on the evidence in the case and had awarded the writ
of ft. fa., was not in conflict with the Constitution or laws of
the United States. From the judgment of the Court of Appeals affirming the order of the lower court, Loeber has prosecuted the present writ of error, and assigned substantially as
the grounds thereof that section 34: of Article V of the Code
of Public General Laws of the State of Maryland is repugnant
to the XIVth Amendment of the Constitution of the United
States, which declares that no State shall deprive any person
of his property without due process of law, and secondly,
because said section 34, Article V of the Code of Public General Laws is repugnant to the XIVth Amendment of the
Constitution, which declares that no State shall make or
enforce any law which shall abridge the privileges or immunities of citizens of the United States.
It is well settled that a writ of error will not lie except to
review a final judgment or decree of the highest court of the
State, and that it will not lie to an order overruling a motion
to quash an execution, because a decision upon the rule or
motion is not such a final judgment or decree in any sit, as

LOEBER v. SCHROEDER.
Opinion of the Court.

is contemplated by the judiciary acts of the general government. Refusal to quash a writ is not a final judgment. Boyle
v Zacharte, 6 Pet. 635, 657, .JfeCargo v Chapman, 20 How
555, Early v Rogers, 16 How 599, Am?,s v Smsth, 16 Pet.
303, 314, -Evansv Gee, 14 Pet. 1.
It is also well settled by the decisions of this court that the
attempt to raise for the first time a Federal question, in a petition for rehearing, after judgment, comes too late. Texas and
Pac Aft Railway Co. v Southern Paoijfl Railroad Co., 137
U S. 48, 54, Butler v. Gage, 138 U S. 52, Tinona & St.
Peter Railroadv Pla nvnew, 143 U. S. 371, Leeper v Texas,
134 U. S. 462, and Bushnell et al. v C'ooke .3Iinng and
Smelt-ing Co., 148 U. S. 682.
The motion to quash the f§.fa. in this case on the grounds
that the order of the Court of Appeals, which directed it to be
issued, was void for the reasons assigned, stood upon no better
footing than a petition for rehearing would have done, and
suggested Federal questions for the first time, which, if they
existed at all, should have been set up and interposed when
the decree of the Court of Appeals was rendered on January
28, 1892.
If any Federal question existed in the case the attempt to
raise it came too late, but we are of opinion that no Federal
question really exists in the case. The provisions of the statute
complained of by the plaintiff in error are manifestly not in
conflict with any provision of the Constitution of the United
States, or of any law of Congress passed in pursuance thereof.
The said statute relates to a matter of state practice alone,
and the proper construction of that statute, upon well-settled
principles, rested with the state courts. The question as to
whether the plaintiff's remedy was at law or in equity was a
matter dependent entirely upon local law, and involved no
Federal right whatever.
We are, therefore, of opinion that the motion to dismiss for
want of jurisdiction should be sustained, and it is accordingly
so ordered.
Dismzssed.

