OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Statement of the Case.

timony, it seems to me strange to say that there was a "1completed understanding." It will not do to hold that, because
Patrick had received Bowman's declaration of his willingness
to sell- a declaration made in ignorance of any discovery of
mineral- he, Patrick, could mentally accept Bowman's offer,
and, without disclosing the fact that mineral had been discovered, proceed to secure a conveyance.
For these reasons I dissent from the opinion of the court,
and I am authorized to say that the Chief Justice concurs in
this dissent.
31R. JUSTICE FIELD

did not sit in this case, and took no part

in its decision.

METROPOLITAN BANK v. ST. LOUIS DISPATCH
COMPANY
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF MISSOURI.
No. 224. Argued April 20,1893. -Decided

May 10, 1893.

Courts of equity in cases of concurrent jurisdiction, consider themselves
bound by the statutes of limitation which govern actions at law.
A suit in equity to enforce a mortgage of the plant and good will of a newspaper published in Missouri, and of the accompanying membership in the
Western Associated Press, which is commenced eight years after the
right of action accrued, during which period the property had changed
hands, and the original plant had been used up and new matter put in its
place, is barred by the statute of limitations of that State, so far as'it
rests upon the theory of conversion of the properties by the defendant,
and, so far as it proceeds upon the theory that the plant, the good will
and the membersip ought on equitable principles to be held subject to
the lien of the mortgage, a court of equity must decline to assist a complainant who sleeps so long upon his rights, and shows no excuse for his
laches.

THE Metropolitan National Bank of New York filed its bill
of complaint against the St. Louis Dispatch Company, a cor-

METROPOLITAIN BANK v. ST. LOUIS DISPATCH C0.

437

Statement of the Case.

poration organized under the laws of the State of Mkissouri,
the Dispatch Publishing Company, a corporation likewise
organized under the laws of that State, and H. L. Sutton,
trustee, a citizen of iMissouri, July 1, 1887, and an amended
bill, April 21, 1888, which averred. "That on or about the
first day of June, A.D. 1877, the said ' The St. Louis Dispatch
Company' owned a certain daily evening newspaper in the
city of St. Louis known as the ' St. Louis Dispatch,' and no
other property whatsoever unconnected with and not appurtenant to the publication and operation of said newspaper,
that the said 'The St. Louis Dispatch,' a newspaper, had been
published continuously and daily for many years, to wit, since
on or about the year 1852, and continued to be published
daily excepting Sundays, up to the date hereinafter mentioned, that the said ' The St. Louis Dispatch,' a newspaper,
was on the first day of June, A.D. 1877, a fully equipped
journal, having a building under lease, all the machinery,
type, presses, cases, forms, paper, furniture and tools useful
or necessary for the printing and publishing of the same, a
good circulation and advertising patronage, (known as its
good will,) and a share of stock, in the Western Associated
Press, under winch it was entitled to receive telegraphic news
and dispatches collected from all parts of the world, as hereinafter more particularly set forth."
That on said first day of June the St. Louis Dispatch Company, by deed of trust in the nature of a mortgage, duly
recorded, conveyed to Henry L. Sutton as trustee the following-described property The machinery, type, presses, cases,
furniture, paper, forms and tools, together with the good will
of the St. Lous Dispatch Company and its franchises of every
kind and description, rights, privileges, and property, including
its interest in the Western Associated Press, and any and all
shares by it owned in the Western Associated Press, as also
all accounts and choses in action or other valuable things by
it owned or to it belonging wherever situated, as "also all
other property of every other nature and character which the
said party of the first part may acquire during the existence
of this deed of trust,." to secure the payment of a note, dated

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Statement of the Case.

that day, to the order of Frank J Bowman for the sum of
$15,000, payable two years and six months after date, with
interest at nine per cent per annum, payable one and one-half
per cent on the first days of August, October, December,
February, April, and June of each year until the payment of
the principal sum, which note so secured was negotiated for
value, and complainant became the legal holder thereof for
value before maturity
That at the time of the execution of said mortgage the
Western Associated Press was a corporation organized under
the laws of the State of Michigan, the sole purpose and object
of its existence being "to procure intelligence for the newspaper press from all parts of the world, by telegraph, express,
mail, or otherwise, and membership in said association was
and is limited generally and specifically to owners and proprietors of newspapers and publishers of periodicals."
That at that date and prior thereto the St. Louis Dispatch
Company was the legal owner on the books of the Western
Associated Press of one share of stock, so called, in said association, (which was of great value,) represented by a certificate of membership, No. 38, which was upon the execution
of the mortgage placed in the possession of the trustee with
the following endorsement " The within certificate of stock
is hereby assigned and transferred to Henry L. Sutton, trustee
in deed of trust bearing date June 1st, 1877, for like purposes
as other property therein named is transferred, being the
certificate of stock in the Western Associated Press therein
referred to."
The bill then stated that on February 2, 1878, the St. Louis
Dispatch Company made a second mortgage, conveying all of
the property described in the first, and other property subsequently acquired, to a trustee in trust to secure another loan
made by it, which was duly recorded, and under winch a sale
of the property took place December 9, 1878, (the sale so
made being subject to the first mortgage,) one Arnold being
the purchaser, who on the same day transferred it to Joseph
Pulitzer.
That at the time of the sale, John A. Dillon was the owner

METROPOLITANT BANK v. ST. LOUIS DISPATCH CO. 439
Statement of the Case.

and publisher of a certain newspaper known as the "Evening
Post," and was printing and publishing the same in the city
of St. Louis, that the Post was the rival and competing newspaper with the Dispatch, and did not, nor did Dillon, own a
membership in the Western Associated Press, nor any right
to the telegraphic news and dispatches thereof, that neither
the Post nor Dillon, in the business of carrying on and publishng the Post, had any presses, type, or paraphernalia for
the printing or publication of a newspaper, that the Post had
not been established but'a few months before the said sale of
the Dispatch newspaper, and had nothing of value, nor had
the said Dillon, in connection with said publication, excepting
a small circulation and advertising patronage and the name of
the Post.
That on December 10, 1878, the said Dillon and the said
Pulitzer consolidated the Post and the Dispatch, and on that
day published a consolidated paper under the name of the
"Post-Dispatch," and that Dillon acqired whatever interest
in the Dispatch property came to him with full notice of the
lien of the first mortgage and subject thereto.
It was further averred that on December 11, 1878, the
"Dispatch Publishing Company" was organized as a corporation under the laws of :Missouri, the object of which was the
publication of a newspaper to be known and called the "Post
and Dispatch," that on that day, Pulitzer and Dillon, having
consolidated the two papers, transferred the same to the
Dispatch Publishing Company, which took the same subject
to the mortgage on all the property of the "St. Louis Dispatch
Company," and with full knowledge thereof, that thereupon,
on the same day, the defendant, the Dispatch Publishing
Company, entered into the possession of the building theretofore occupied by the St. Louis Dispatch Company in the publication of the St. Louis Dispatch, and of the good will of that
newspaper, with the presses, type, etc., and all the rights,
property, and franchises thereof, including the membership in
the Western Associated Press represented then by certificate
No. 38, that the Dispatch Publishing Company has ever since
had the good will of the Dispatch Company, and the name

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Statement of the Case.

"Dispatch," and used the same building formerly occupied by
the St. Louis Dispatch Company The bill further alleges
that the Dispatch Publishing Company paid the interest on
the Bowman note on the first days of February, April, June
and October, 1879, but the remaining instalment, payable on
December 1, 1879, being the date on which the principal
became due, they refused to pay, as also the principal, that
upon such refusal the trustee, Sutton, demanded of the Dispatch Publishing Company the property of the St. Louis
Dispatch Company, including its good will and all the property recited in the first mortgage, which the Dispatch Publishing Company wholly refused to surrender. That at that
time the Dispatch Publishing Company had alienated, destroyed, or gradually used up all the machinery, type, presses,
and property of a perishable nature of the St. Lous Dispatch
Company
The bill also averred that the good will of the St. Louis
Dispatch newspaper was its chief element of value, that the
good will so acquired by the Dispatch Publishing Company,
of the St. Louis Dispatch Company, has been in the constant
use and control of the first-named company, and has never
been alienated, that the name of a newspaper is valuable
and salable, and that the Dispatch Publishing Company
acquired its name under the second mortgage, subject to the
lien existing upon it, and still retains the name, "Dispatch,'
in the publication of its newspaper.
That the machinery, presses, etc., acquired by the purchase
under the second mortgage by the 'Dispatch Publishing
Company, it continued to use for a long time, but substituted
new paraphernalia for publication from time to time, and
that on the date of the maturity of the note the Dispatch
Publishing Company had none of the original paraphernalia
described in the first deed of mortgage, that the effect of the
acquisition of the two properties known as the Evening Post
and the St. Louis Dispatch was that the lien of the first
mortgage attached to all the property of the Dispatch Publishing Company, and that the latter recognized the validity
of the mortgage lien by paying the interest on the mortgage

METROPOLITAT BANK v. ST. LOUIS DISPATCH CO. 441
Statement of the Case.

debt and the assessment on the membership in the Western
Associated Press; that the complainant and the trustee were
induced by its conduct to believe that the Dispatch Publishing Company would pay the debt or surrender the property
in case of a failure of compliance with the conditions of the
trust deed, that the Dispatch Publishing Company continued
to recognize the mortgage as a lien on said property, including
the membership, up to the maturity of the note, when it
refused to pay the same or surrender the property, that, for
the reason that the good will and other property of the
mortgagors was confused and intermingled with the property
of the Dispatch Publishing Company so as to be incapable of
separation or distinction therefrom, the property and good will
of the latter ought in equity to be charged with the lien of
the mortgage debt, and that at the time of the acquisition of
said mortgaged good will, etc., the Dispatch Publishing Company agreed and assumed to pay said debt.
The bill further averred "that a membership in the Western
Associated Press is always represented by a certificate of a
share of stock therein, and that under the by-laws and constitution of said Western Associated Press, said membership is
tenable and vendible only in connection with the publication
of a newspaper or periodical, and in the manner laid down in
the said constitution and by-laws winch are herewith filed
and made a part of this complaint and marked Exhibits
F & G." And further, "that under the by-laws and articles
of incorporation aforesaid, the legal title to said certificate of
membership aforesaid could never have vested fully in any
individual, firm or corporation until, and after said individual,
firm or corporation should have become the purchaser of the
good will and property of said St. Louis Dispatch Company
and as successor in right and liability to said company, and
if, after any sale whether of foreclosure or otherwise, the
purchaser of said property did not continue a publication in
connection therewith, the said membership would become
lifeless and valueless because a publication in connection with
it was and is necessary to the sustenance of its life and value,
that the said trustee and complainant herein have no rights in

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Statement of the Case.

respect to said membershipi except under said deed of trust,
and can acquire no title thereto until a sale of the good will
of the St. Louis Dispatch Company, now m possession of the
defendant Dispatch Publishing Company, at wich time the
title intended to be conveyed to the complainant herein by
said deed of trust would be effectuated to the purchaser
of the good will and property of said St. Louis Dispatch
Company"
That one year after the Dispatch Publishing Company had
been m the use and enjoyment of the membership m the
Western Associated Press, represented by certificate No. 38,
it applied to the association for the issue of a new certificate,
and the association issued to the Dispatch Publishing Company a new certificate, and placed the name of that company
upon its books as a member in virtue of the right acquired as
successor to the St. Louis Dispatch Company, which membership was represented by certificate No. 61, but was the same
membership as that represented by certificate No. 38, that
the assessments on the membership had always been paid by
the Dispatch Publishing Company, and that said company,
by using the membership for one year, without applying for
a new certificate or to have its name placed on the books of
the Western Associated Press as the successor of the St. Louis
Dispatch Company, acknowledged the title of the latter.
The prayer was that the Dispatch Publishing Company be
decreed to pay the complainant $15,000, with interest at the
rate of nine per cent per annum since October 1, 1879, and
that, to make that sum, the good will of the Dispatch Publishing Company be sold, also the personal property used by
it in connection with its business and certificate No. 64 in the
Western Associated Press. To this amended bill a demurrer
was filed and sustained, and a final decree of dismissal rendered. Among other exhibits the by-laws of the Western
Associated Press were filed with the bill and made a part
thereof, and these provided, among other things, as follows
"I. - Membership. Any proprietor of a daily newspaper
who has heretofore signed the articles of association and is
now an active member of the same, and his lawful assigns,

ME'ETROPOLITAN BANK v. ST. LOUIS DISPATCH C0.

443

Statement of the Case.

and any such person or firm or corporation within the territory of the Western Associated Press who shall hereafter be
admitted in accordance with these by-laws, shall be a member
of the association, provided that no new member shall be
elected except upon the terms prescribed by Article XV
"II. - Stock. The evidence of membership shall consist
of a certificate of one share of the capital stock of the association, which certificate shall be transferable only on the books
of the association as hereinafter provided."
"XII. - Transfers. Any member selling or transferring
his newspaper may transfer his certificate of stock to the
purchaser or successor in the ownership of such newspaper,
and it shall be the duty of the secretary, upon request, to
transfer the same on the books of the association to such
purchaser or successor, who shall then sign the articles of
association and by-laws and become a member, with the same
rights and privileges as the original member. If any member
shall discontinue the publication of a newspaper, or shall sell
his newspaper to another member, his membership shall cease,
and his certificate of stock shall be cancelled on the books of
the association, and the treasurer shall refund to him the
money paid to the association for the same."
The board of directors shall have
"XIV -Assessments.
power to make assessments upon the members to defray the
expenses incurred in collecting and transmitting intelligence,
and for other purposes not inconsistent with the charter and
by-laws, and the board may discontinue the use of the news so
collected to any member failing to pay promptly his assessment. Any member to whom the use of the news has been
so discontinued may be readmitted to the use of the same,
within six months of the tune of such discontinuance, upon
his refunding to the other members of the association in the
same city or town such increased assessment as they may have
paid in consequence of said discontinuance.
"XV - Admission of New Members. Applications for
membership in this association shall be made in writing to
the board of directors, and if a majority of said board shall
vote for the adussion of the applicant, he shall sign the

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

articles of association and by-laws, and pay into the treasury
the sum of ten dollars or an additional amount equal to what
would be his pro rata share in the property of the association.
It shall then be the duty of the secretary to issue to him a
certificate of one share of stock, and to enroll his name in the
list of membership Prowded, That no new members shall be
admitted without the unammous consent of the members in
the city or town where his business is carried on."
The opinion of the court, by Judge Thayer, will be found
reported in 36 Fed. Rep. 722.
From the decree dismissing the bill an appeal was taken
to this court, and while pending here a stipulation was filed
setting forth the dissolution by decree of court of the Dispatch
Publishing Company and the successorship thereto of the
Pulitzer Publishing Company, as the owner and publisher of
the newspaper and of the membership m the Western Associated Press, which had issued to saad company a certificate
April 2, 1892, numbered 93. The appearance of the new corporation and of two directors of the dissolved company as
parties defendant was entered.
Mr John -1. .Dtkson for appellant.
-Hr C. E. Gibson for appellee. -&
him on the brief.
MR.

Oniins JUsTicE FULLER

C. Gibson was with

delivered the opimon of the

court.
In the language of counsel for appellant this bill "was fied
for the foreclosure of a mortgage upon a certain newspaper,
a newspaper plant, and a membership in the Western Associated Press." The contention is that the newspaper, plant,
and membership were subject to the lien of the Sutton mortgage as one homogeneous property, and that any property of
like kind substituted for any portion lost or destroyed became
subject to this lien, that the identity of the newspaper, the
membership, and the plant, remained up to July 1, 1887, when

METRIOPOLITAN BANLK v. ST. LOUIS DISPATCH CO.

445

Opinion of the Court.

the bill was filed, and that the defendant was estopped to
deny such identity because of the similarity of the names;
the wilful confusion of the good wills, the obtamug of the
second certificate m lieu of the first, and because from the
character of the plant all the changes made were m the nature
of repairs, parts being replaced from time to time by reason
of constant wear and tear, from which resulted a confusion of
chattels, making the identification of the several parts of the
plant impossible.
On December 1, 1879, when the note matured, and the
defendant, the.Dispatch Publishing Company, refused to pay
it or to surrender the property on the demand of the trustee,
the bill stated that none of the original presses, type, and paraphernalia for printing a newspaper, described in the mortgage,
were in existence. The bill was not framed on the theory of
holding the defendant for the value of the mortgaged chattels
on the ground of wrongful conversion, nor was it charged that
there was any wrongful intermingling of the original plant
with that subsequently acquired, either by the St. Louis Dispatch Company, or the purchaser under the second mortgage,
or his grantee, the Dispatch Publishing Company The allegation was that the machinery, type, presses, and property of
a perishable nature had been alienated or destroyed or gradually used up. This was done in the course of business, and as
the plant on hand at the maturity of the note was an entirely
new plant, not described in the mortgage, we think the mortgage could not be extended to it upon the theory of wilful
intermingling. The clause in the Sutton mortgage in relation
to after-acquired property was an executory agreement for
the 'non-performance of which the mortgagee might recover
compensation in damages as against the mortgagor, but as
against the grantee of the purchaser at the sale, the lien of
the mortgage could not embrace what had no existence when
it was given, and was not acquired by the mortgagor, and if
such grantee were liable at all it would be for the conversion
of the existing property, and no foundation for such a charge
is laid here, irrespective of the objection that the remedy
would be at law

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinon of the Court.

Undoubtedly, good will is in many cases a valuable thing,
although there is difficulty in deciding accurately what is
included under the term. It is tangible only as an incident,
as connected with a going concern or business having locality
or name, and is not susceptible of being disposed of independently Mr. Justice Story defined good will to be "the
advantage or benefit, which is acquired by an establishment,
beyond the mere value of the capital, stock, funds, or property
employed therein, in consequence of the general public
patronage and encouragement which it receives from constant or habitual customers, on account of its local position,
or common celebrity, or reputation for skill or affluence, or
punctuality, or from other accidental circumstances or
necessity, or even from ancient partialities or prejudices."
Story Part. § 99.
As applied to a newspaper, the good will usually attaches
to its name rather than to the place of publication. The
probability of the title continuing to attract custom in the
way of circulation and advertising patronage, gives a value
which may be protected and disposed of, and constitutes
property
On the 9th of December, 1878, the St. Louis Dispatch
Company ceased business as the publisher of a newspaper,
and on that day another newspaper was published under the
name of the Post-Dispatch. If the Dispatch Publishing
Company acquired the good will of the St. Louis Dispatch
Company, it also acqmred the good will of the- Post. The
Sutton mortgage covered the good will of the St. Louis
Dispatch, but it did not- embrace the good will of the Dispatch Publishing Company or of the newspaper known as
the Post-Dispatch, as existing July 1, 1887. Indeed, if there
had been no consolidation with any other paper, and the
good will that the St. Louis Dispatch had in 1878 had been
conveyed to a separate concern, it could hardly be held that
the good will of the latter eight years afterwards was the
same good will which had been conveyed. Moreover, the
good will of the Dispatch Publishing Company was from
the first different from the good will named in the mortgage.

METROPOLITAN BANK v. ST. LOUIS DISPATCH CO.

447

Opinion of the Court.

The paper was of a different name and issued by a different
company and the good will was the joint good will, as we
have said, of two papers. And if the Dispatch Publishing
Company acquired on the 10th day of December, 1878, the
good will belonging to the St. Lois Dispatch, for which it
should have accounted, but refused to account, then it would
be only liable as for a conversion, for the lien of the mortgage certainly could not extend to a good will which there
was no pretence was ever embraced in it.
However, it is urged that the Dispatch Publishing Company
did in fact acquire the place of business of the St. Louis
Dispatch Company and the existing plant with the good will
attached thereto, subject to the lien of the first mortgage,
that when it consolidated the property and good will so
acquired with the property and good, will of the other newspaper, it retained the word "Dispatch" as part of the name,
that it paid the interest up to October 1, 1879, and that its
conduct was such as to amount to a direct representation to
the mortgagee that it had agreed to put itself in the shoes
of the mortgagor. Hence it is contended that the averment of
the bill that the Dispatch Publishing Company agreed and
assumed to pay the mortgage debt was justified as a legal
conclusion upon the principle of estoppel. We do not concur
in this view It is admitted that there was no express or
direct promise on the part of the defendant to pay the mortgage debt, and it cannot be held that the mere purchase of
premises subject to a mortgage renders the purchaser personally liable to the mortgagee, as having assumed to pay it, or
that the mere payment of interest in itself imposes that liability
Nliott v Saceett, 108 U S. 132, Drury v. Hayden, 111
U. S. 223, .Hallv -Morgan,79 XM issouri, 47, 52.
There was no personal connection between the Dispatch
Publishing Company and the complainant, and it is not
charged that there was any representation that that company
would be personally responsible for the debt, or that property
acquired by it from other sources, and not embraced in the
mortgage, should be subject to the mortgage lien. No fraud
is alleged, but, in effect, only that the complainant was misled

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

by the payment of interest. What beneficial course the complainant was prevented from pursuing by reliance on the
conduct of the Dispatch Publishing Company prior to the
maturity of the note does not appear, but it does appear that
on December 1, 1879, the Dispatch Publishing Company refused to pay the note and the last instalment of interest, and
refused to surrender the property Yet the complainant did
not file this bill until nearly eight years afterwards. Clearly
that delay is not attributable to the payment of interest nor
to any conduct of the Dispatch Publishing Company prior to
December 1, 1879. After that date the latter company confessedly held adversely to complainant, and it is difficult to
see why any claim in respect of either the plant or the good
will of the St. Louis Dispatch is not barred.
Courts of equity in cases of concurrent jurisdiction consider
themselves bound by the statutes of limitation which govern
actions at law In many other cases they act upon the analogy of cases at law, but even when there is no such statute
governing a case, a defence founded upon the lapse of time
and the staleness of the claim is available in equity Godden
v Eimmel, 99 U. S. 201,

,!jvezdcel v Henmoz, 120 U. S. 377.

Under the statute of limitations of Missouri, actions upon
any writing, whether sealed or unsealed, for the payment of
money or property, must be commenced within ten years, and
actions for taking, detaining, or injuring any goods or chattels,
including actions for the recovery of specific personal property, or for any other injury to the person or rights of another, not arising on contract, must be brought within five
years. Rev Stats. Missouri, 1879, §§ 3229, 3230.
If the original plant were wrongfully used up, or by the
consolidation the good will of the St. Louis Dispatch Company was wrongfully appropriated, the Dispatch Publishing
Company became responsible as for a conversion. The rule
in relation to wrongful admixture of property had no application, and it is not perceived how the act of appropriation in
relation to either the plant or the good will could be made to
operate, nearly eight years after adverse possession commenced, to extend the lien of the mortgage over property not

METROPOLITAN BANK v. ST. LOUIS DISPATCH CO.

449

Opinion of the Court.

embraced in it. If the use of the word "Dispatch" in the
title of the new newspaper became wrongful after the Dispatch Publishing Company refused to pay the note or to
surrender the property, then the complainant should have
made its objections promptly known and sought the appropriate remedy, but this it did not do, and it would be inequitable to accord relief by injunction after the lapse of so many
years and the inevitable changes in the condition of the property Such relief, however, is not invoked in this case, and
the right to it, if it existed, would furnish no aid to the
application to foreclose. It is very clear that the Circuit
Court was right in holding that there was no plant or good
will, the sale of which could be decreed.
The case stands on no different ground in respect of the
membership in the Western Associated Press. As averred in
the bill, and as shown by the articles and by-laws, such membership was always represented by a certificate of a share of
,stock, and could be held and sold only in connection with the
publication of a newspaper or periodical, and in the manner
prescribed. The object of the association was "the procuring
of intelligence for the newspaper press from all parts of the
world by telegraph," and the holders of certificates of membership were entitled thereby to receive the news thus collected. Applications for admission were obliged to be made
in writing to the board of directors, and if a majority of the
board voted for the admission of the applicant, he then signed
the articles of association and by-laws and paid into the
treasury the sum of ten dollars and an additional amount
equal to what would be his yro rata share in the property of
the association, but no new member could be admitted without the unanimous consent of all the members in the town or
city where his business was carried on. The 12th by-law
provided, among other things, that "if any member shall
discontinue the publication of a newspaper, or shall sell his
newspaper to another member, his membership shall cease
and his certificate of stock shall be cancelled on the books of
the association, and the treasurer shall refund to him the
money paid to the association for the same."
VOL. cxLIx-29

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

The St. Louis Dispatch Company ceased publication December 9, 1878, and it was averred that about one year thereafter
the Dispatch Publishing Company, which during that year
had been in the use and enjoyment of the membership without apparent change of ownership, procured the issue of a
new certificate numbered 61. If, as alleged, the Dispatch
Publishing Company acknowledged the title of the St. Louis
Dispatch Company to the membership by continuing to use
it, while standing in the name of the St. Louis Dispatch Company, it certainly disavowed it when it applied for a new
certificate and to have its name placed upon the books of the
association. The Associated Press in issuing that certificate
admitted a new corporation to its membership, and that
membership was not the same membership which was hypothecated to secure the Bowman note. It does not appear that
the old certificate was cancelled, but as the publication of the
St. Louis Dispatch had been discontinued and the membership
in that sense had ceased by the terms of the by-laws, it is
perhaps to be inferred that that had been done. Apparently
the association had the right to accord or deny the privileges
of membership as it saw fit, and whether its action in the
admission of the new corporation to membership was wholly
independent of certificate N o. 38, or based upon the substitution of one share for the other, it would seem to follow, upon
the assumption that a membership could be pledged or mortgaged without its consent, that the association was directly
interested in the contention raised by the complainant in
respect of that action, and that the Circuit Court was right
in holding that the question ought not to be determined in
the absence of the association as a party
But in any view, the membership of the Dispatch Publishing Company was held adversely to the complainant. At the
time the bill was filed, it had been so held for nearly eight
years in the name of the Dispatch Publishing Company,
which had paid all the assessments upon it and enjoyed all
its privileges as the owner. If it obtained that membership
under the by-laws without reference to certificate No. 38,
then of course the bill as framed would fail, and if it had

