OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

and ornamentation of hats, bonnets, or hoods, and with instructions that, if they so found, their verdict should be given
in favor of the plaintiff, notwithstanding it might appear that
the articles were composed wholly or chiefly of silk.
The judgment of the court below s accordingly reversed,
with directwns to award a new trnal.
MR. JUSTICE BREWER and MR. JUSTICE BxowN concurred in
the judgment for reasons stated in the dissenting opinion in
Hartranft v -Meyer, No. 860, 2ost, 547.

HARTRANFT v. MEYER.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED
EASTERN

STATES FOR THE

DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA.

No. 860. Argued April 11, 12,1893.-Decided May 15,1893.

Piece goods, commercially known and designated as "chinas" and "marcelines," which are chiefly used for inzng hats and bonnets are dutiable
at the rate of twenty per centum ad valorem under Schedule N of the
tariff act of March 3, 1883, as materials "used for making
hats,
bonnets, or hoods."

_r

Solictor General for plaintiff in error.'

.Xr Frank P Pr-ichard and -Mr Joseph H. Choate, (with
whom were Mr Henry E. Tremamn and XLr -Mason W Tyler
on the brief,) for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE SHiRAS delivered the opinion of the court.
This was an action, brought by the firm of Meyer & Dickinson, in the Court of Common Pleas of Philadelphia, against
IFor the argument

of Mr. Solicitor General in this cause see ante, p. 540.

HARTRANFT v. MEYER.
Opinion of the Court.

the collector of customs for that district, to recover duties
which they allege to have been illegally assessed against certain articles imported by them. The action was certified to
and tried in the Circuit Court for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania, and resulted in a verdict and judgment in favor of
the plaintiffs. The collector sued out a writ of error, which
is now prosecuted in this court by his executrix.
The issues that were tried in the court below arose under
the tariff act of March 3, 1883. 22 Stat. 510, 512, c. 121. The
imported articles consisted of "chinas" and "marcelines," the
latter being made wholly of silk, and the former of silk and
cotton, silk being the component material of chief value.
The position of the government was that such articles were
dutiable under Schedule L of the act, at the rate of fifty per
centum ad valorem, while the plaintiffs contended that they
came under Schedule N, and were chargeable with duty at
the rate of twenty per centum ad valorem.
The court below regarded the case as falling within the doctrine of Nartranftv. langfeld, 125 U. S .128, and of IBoberson
v Edelh.f, 132 U S. 614,.and accordingly referred it to the
jury to find, under the evidence, whether the goods in question
were trimmings, and what was their chief use.
A large number of witnesses were called on both sides. There
was no dispute as to the composition of the goods, but there
was conflicting evidence as to the extent of their use as hat
trimmings. The testimony on behalf of the government
tended to show that such goods were largely, and, according
to some witnesses, chiefly used for purposes other than for hat
and bonnet trimmings. The plaintiffs' witnesses testified that,
while they were used to a limited extent for other purposes,
their chief use was for trimming and lining hats and bonnets.
A verdict was found and judgment entered in favor of the
plantiffs.
-If this case is not distinguishable in its facts from the cases
above referred to, then a like conclusion must be reached as
that announced in the case of Cadwaladerv TWanamaker, just
decided, ante, p. 532, and for the same reasons, which we need
not here repeat.
VOL. CXLIX-35

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

An attempt is made to distinguish the facts of the cases in
the particular that whereas, in the other cases the imported
goods were ribbons, and thus articles naturally fitted for hat and
bonnet trimmings, in this case they are piece goods, bought
and sold under the commercial designation of "chinas" and
"marcelines," and chiefly used for li~ng hats and bonnets.
But an examination of the record shows that the judge of
the trial court did not overlook the distinction supposed to be
involved in the character of the imported articles. He stated to
the jury that "undoubtedly the word 'trimmings,' as used in
the clause relating to hats, and so forth, material for, includes
ornamental appendages. But does it include nothing more 2
This you will determine upon a consideration of the whole
evidence, and having regard also to the terms of the particular claim of the tariff act with which we are now dealing.
The language of that clause as it relates to 'trimmings' is
'Hats, and so forth, materials for,
trimmings,
used for maknng or ornamenting hats, bonnets, and hoods.'
The use is not confined to ornamentation, but by the express
words of the clause is for 'making' as well as ornamenting.
But aside from the matter of ornamentation you
are to consider whether the lining of a hat, bonnet, or hood
is not part of the construction or 'making' of the article
within the meaning of the clause of the tariff act."
And again "The evidence tends to show that chinas and
marcelines are particularly adapted and intended to be used,
and in fact are and long have been used, as inside appendages
for hats, bonnets, and hoods, to trim and finish them, and that
their substantial commercial value consists in that use. Are
they or are they not trimmings according to the natural meaniIig of that word 2 This you will determine, taking into consideration all the evidence on the subject and having regard to
the preponderating weight of the evidence. If you should
find from the evidence that the articles here in question, chinas
and marcelines, were not trimmings, that of course would
make an end of the plaintiffs' case, but if you should find
them to be trimmings, then the only remaining inquiry will
be as to what their chief use is."

H3ARTRANFT v. MEYER.
Dissenting Opinion. Brewer, Brown, 33.

We are unable to see anything objectionable in these instructions, and the charge must be deemed a sound exposition of
the law, if the previous decisions of this court, whose rulings
the learned judge had in view, are to stand.
Conceding there is force in the views so ably urged in behalf
of the government, for the reasons given in the case of Cad
walader v Wanzmaker, supra, we adhere to the conclusions
reached in the cited cases, and the judgment of the court
below is accordingly
Affirrned.
Mi1.

JUSTICE B.EnwFR,

with whom concurred Mnz. JusTicE

BnowN, dissenting.
With respect to these three cases, [No. 31, ante, 532, No. 151,
ante, 541, and this case,] I desire to make these observations
The questions presented in them are not constitutional, nor
even of general and permanent law, but relate only to the
scope and meaning of certain statutory clauses now repealed,
and which were in force for only a few years. While the
amounts involved may be, as counsel contend, large, yet the
questions are but of temporary and passing importance.
Hence, after two decisions the questions should be considered
as settled, and that, notwithstanding some of the present
members have come on to the bench since those decisions, and
may not concur in the views therein expressed.
The end of litigation, so much to be desired, is not fully
satisfied by the close of the particular law suit, but implies
that the question involved therein is settled, so settled, that
all parties may adjust their dealings and conduct accordingly
A change in the personnel of a court should not mean a shift
in the law Stare decmsis is the rule, and not the exception.
Whatever, therefore, is within the letter or spirit of the two
cases of Hartranft v langfeld, 125 U. S. 128, and Robertson
v. Eelhof, 132 U. S. 614, should be considered as having
passed beyond the scope of present inquiry For these reasons,
considering the course of the trial and the rulings of the court,
I concur in the decisions in the first two cases.
With regard to No. 860, I think that the facts and rulings

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Dissenting Opinon Brewer, Brown, JJ.

bring out a clear distinction. The importations in that case
were chinas and marcelines, so described in the invoices, imported as piece-goods, in rolls or folds of from 75 to 125 yards
in length, and from 18 to 31 inches in width. Are such goods
trimmings2 I think by no fair construction of the word can
they in that condition be called trimmings. Confessedly they
must come within these, words of the statute "Trimmings
used for making or ornamenting hats, bonnets, and
hoods." The question of use, or chief use, does not arise until
it is established that the goods are trimmings. This question
was really not in the cases in 125 and 132 U. S., supra. In
the opinion in the former it was said of the goods there in
question "That they were trimmings was not a matter of
controversy, all the witnesses, on both sides, spoke of them
as such." And in the latter "On the trial the undisputed
evidence was that the articles in question were used exclusively
for trimming hats and bonnets, and had a commercial value
only for that purpose." In neither case does it appear that
any question was made as to whether the articles there imported were trimmings or not. But it was in this case, and
such instructions asked and refused, as compel a determination
of that specific question. The instructions and comments of
the court are as follows.
"' 1. If you believe that in March, 1883, chinas and mar
celines were commercially known as "linings," and not "trimmings," then your verdict should be for the defendant.'
"This point is refused.
"'2. If you believe that the chinas and marcelines in suit
were bought, sold, and used in trade in March, 1883, under
those names, and were not commercially known as "trimmings," then your verdict should be for the defendant.'
"This point is refused."
"' 6. If you believe that the chinas and marcelines in suit
were not in the form of trimmings at the time of their importation, you must find for the defendant, although you should
believe that they were suitable and adapted by their nature
and qualities to be made into hat trimmings.'
"This point is refused. This point which I have just read

HARTRANFT v. MEYER.
Dissenting Opinion. Brewer, Brown, JJ.

and the next one embody the proposition advanced by defendant's counsel and discussed by them before the jury that the
chinas and marcelines here in question cannot be regarded
as within the term 'trimmings' as employed in the act of
Congress, because they are imported by the piece, and before
the material is actually applied to use in the making or
ornamenting of hats, bonnets, and hoods the pieces have to be
cut into smaller pieces and made into certain forms.
"But the court cannot accept this view as correct, and I
instruct you that hat materials which are imported by the
piece are 'trimmings' within the meaning of the act of Congress if they are distinctively adapted and, in fact, are chiefly
used for trimming hats, bonnets, and hoods, and are not specially enumerated or provided for in the act.
""I'. The jury are instructed that there is a distinction
properly to be made between "trimmings" and materials out
of which to manufacture trimmings, and if the articles in suit
are not trimmings in the sense of being completely fabricated
as such, but required skill and labor to cut, fit, fold, sew or
fashion them into trimmings, then they must find for the
defendant.'
"You will understand that I am asked to instruct you in
this way, this is the proposition which counsel hand me to
affirm. I decline to give you that instruction, and I have
given you the contrary instruction. The point is refused."
Now, I am of the opinion that these goods were, in the
condition in which they were imported, not trimmings. 1
concede that if they had a commercial designation as such,
that would be sufficient within many rulings of this court, but
the testimony does not establish that fact, and the refusal
of the first two instructions eliminates that matter from
present consideration. That being eliminated, it does not
seem to me that these goods, when and as imported, legitimately fall within the ordinary meaning of the word "trimmmgs." The idea of trimmings is of something cut up or
prepared ready for present use in the ornamentation or making of hats, bonnets, etc. Concede that these rolls or folds of
cloth were generally used for cutting up into trimmings, they

