OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

Circuit Court for the Western Dstrzct of Texas, with
directions to set aside the verdiet and judgment, and to
overruZe the demurrer to the plea = abatement, and st
s accordingly so ordered.

UNITED STATES v. SNYDER.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT

COURT OF THE

UNITED

STATES

FOR

THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF LOUISIANA.
No. 229. Submitted April 20, 1893.-Decided May 1, 1893.

The lien imposed upon the real estate of a manufacturer of tobacco, snuff
or cigars, by Rev. Stat. ยง 3207, to secure the payment of internal revenue
taxes, is not subject to the laws of the State in which the real estate is
situated respecting recording or registering mortgages or liens.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
M1r Assitant Attorney General MAaury for appellants.
XEr B. F Jonas for appellee.
MR. JUSTICE SHIRAS delivered the opinion of the court.
The facts of this case, as appearing by the record, are undisputed, and are as follows Charles A. Snyder was, during
the year 1878, engaged in the business of the manufacture of
tobacco in. the city of New Orleans, and, while so engaged,
became indebted to the United States for internal revenue
taxes in the sum of several thousand dollars, and these taxes
were duly assessed and certified to the collector of internal
revenue, who made demand for payment.
On the 20th day of November, 1879, at the time of such
indebtedness and demand for payment, and for more than a
year prior and subsequent to said date, the said Charles A.
Snyder was the owner of certain pieces and parcels of real

UNITED STATES v. SNYDER.
Opinion of the Court.

estate situated in the city of New Orleans, to wit, nine several
lots designated as Nos. 4, 5, 6, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, and 14, with
the buildings and improvements thereon, in the square bounded
by Peters, Erato, Gaiennie, and Tohoupitoulas Streets, and by
act of sale passed before Theodore Guyol, notary, on February
5, 1881, Charles A. Snyder sold, conveyed and delivered, for
a valuable consideration, the said lots of ground to the International Cotton Press Company, which has been ever since in
the continuous use and occupation of the same.
On April 15, 1885, a bill of complaint was filed in the
Circuit Court of the United States for the Eastern District
of Louisiana against Charles A. Snyder for the collection of
said taxes. Nanme Mary Torian, wife of said Snyder, and
the International Cotton Press Company were named as
codefendants with him, it being alleged in said bill that they
claimed to have liens and interests in the said pieces or lots of
ground.
Mrs. Snyder was not served with process, nor was any appearance entered for her. The cause was put at issue, and so
proceeded in that a personal judgment was entered against
Charles A. Snyder and in favor of the United States in the
sum of $3643.29, but the bill was dismissed as to the International Cotton Press Company, and from this decree an
appeal was taken to this court.
The assessment on which the lien for taxes was claimed in
behalf of the United States was never filed or inscribed in the
mortgage office of the parish of New Orleans, as required
by the laws of the State of Louisiana, in order to affect third
persons, and the International Cotton Press Company purchased the property on which said tax lien was claimed to
exist for full value, in good faith, and in ignorance of the said
alleged assessment.
Section 3371 of the Revised Statutes, as amended by section
14 of the act of March 1, 1879, under which the taxes in
question were assessed, is in the following terms
"Whenever any manufacturer of tobacco, snuff, or cigars
sells, or removes for sale or consumption, any tobacco, snuff,
or cigars upon which a tax is required to be paid by stamps,

OCTOBER TERME, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

without the use of the proper stamps, it shall be the duty of
the Commissioner of Internal Revenue, within a period'of not
more than two years after such sale or removal, upon satisfactory proof, to estimate the amount of tax which has been
omitted to be paid, and to make an assessment therefor, and
certify the same to the collector. The tax so assessed shall
be in addition to the penalties imposed by law for such sale
or removal. Prowded, however, That no such assessment
shall be made until and after notice to the manufacturer of
the alleged sale and removal to show cause against said assessment, and the Commissioner of Internal Revenue shall, upon
a full hearing of all the evidence, determine what assessment,
if any, should be made."
Section 3186 of the Revised Statutes, as amended by section
3 of the act of March 1, 1879, is as follows
"If any person liable to pay any tax neglects or refuses to
pay the same after demand, the amount shall be a lien in
favor of the United States from the tune when the assessment
list was received by the collector, except when otherwise
provided, until paid, with the interest, penalties, and costs
that may accrue in addition thereto, upon all property and
rights to property belonging to such person."
The method of remedy is provided by section 3207, Revised
Statutes, as follows
"In any case where there has been a refusal or neglect to
pay any tax, and it has become necessary to seize and sell real
estate to satisfy the same, the Commissioner of Internal
Revenue may direct a bill in chancery to be filed in a District
or Circuit Court of the United States, to enforce the lien of
the United States for tax upon any real estate, or to subject
any real estate owned by the delinquent, or m which he has
any right, title, or interest, to the payment of such tax. All
persons having liens upon or claiming any interest in the real
estate sought to be subjected as aforesaid shall be made
parties to such proceedings, and be brought into court as provided in other suits in chancery therein. And the said court
proceed to adjudicate all matters involved
shall
therein, and finally determine the merits of all claims to and

UNITED STATES v. SNYDER.
Opinion of the Court.

liens upon the real estate m question, and, in all cases where
a claim or interest of the United States therein shall be established, shall decree a sale of such real estate by the proper
officer of the court, and a distribution of the proceeds of such
sale, according to the findings of the court in respect to the
interest of the parties and of the United States."
The record discloses in the present case that the Commissioner of Internal Revenue did, within two years after sale
and removal by Snyder of tobacco without the proper stamps,
in the mode authorized and directed by law, estimate the
amount of the tax omitted to be paid, make an assessment
thereof, and certify the same to the collector.
The bill of complaint was in the form prescribed by law,
and, upon the facts admitted, the government was entitled
to a decree for a sale of Snyder's real estate in satisfaction
-of the sum found due by him, unless, indeed, the defence set
up on behalf of the International Cotton Press Company was
valid.
That defence was founded in the provisions of Article 176
of the Louisiana Constitution of 1879, in these terms: "No
mortgage or privilege on immovable property shall affect
third persons, unless recorded or registered in the parish where
the property is situated, in the manner and within the time
as is now or may be prescribed by law, except privileges for
expenses of last illness, and privileges for taxes, state, parish,
or municipal Provided, Such privileges shall lapse in three
years."
That the lien or assessment of the taxes in question was
not recorded or filed in the mortgage office of the parish of
New Orleans, within which Snyder's real estate was situated,
and that no proceedings to enforce the lien were brought
within three years, are admitted facts.
The single question thus presented for our consideration is
whether the tax system of the United States is subject to the
-recording laws of the States.
The court below answered this question in the affirmative,
but filed no opinion. Nor have the counsel of the appellees
sustained the proposition on which they rely by the citation

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

of any authorities. It is true that, on the other hand, the
attorney of the government has not referred us to any decision
of this court which can be said to be directly m point. This
absence of authority is doubtless attributable to the fact that
the subject of Federal taxation, dealt with by Federal statutes, creating liens for taxes, and providing remedies for their
collection, has always been conceded to be independent of the
legislative action of the States.
The power of taxation has always been regarded as a
necessary and indispensable incident of sovereignty A government that cannot, by self-administered methods, collect
from its subjects the means necessary to support and maintam itself in the execution of its functions is a government
merely in name. If the United States, proceeding in one of
their own courts, in the collection of a tax admitted to be
legitimate, can be thwarted by the plea of a state statute prescribing that such a tax must be assessed and recorded under
state regulation, and limiting the tune within which such tax
shall be a lien, it would follow that the potential existence of
the government of the United States is at the mercy of state
legislation.
Moreover, it scarcely seems necessary to look beyond the
Constitution itself for a decisive reply to the question we are
now considering. The 8th section of the 1st article declares
that "the Congress shall have power to lay and collect taxes,
duties, imposts and excises,
but all duties, imposts
and excises shall be uniform throughout the United States."
The power to impose and collect the public burthens is here
given in terms as absolute as the language affords. The provision exacting uniformity throughout the United States itself
imports a system of assessment and collection under the
exclusive control of the general government. And both the
grant of the power and its limitation are wholly inconsistent
with the proposition that the States can by legislation interfere with the assessment of Federal taxes, or set up a limitation of time within which they must be collected.
Although decisions of this court upon the precise question
before us cannot be cited, there are some on analogous sub-

UNITED STATES v. SNYDER.
Opimon of the Court.
jects which lead clearly to the conclusion that the tax system
of the United States is regulated by the Federal statutes and
practice, and are not controlled by state enactments.
In Dollar Sav ngs Bank v United States, 19 Wall. 227, it
was held that the United States could maintain an action of
debt for taxes due by a state bank in a Circuit Court of the
United States, m disregard of a state statute prescribing a
special form of remedy for the assessment and collection of
taxes due by banks.
In _Afurray's Lessee v. Hoboken Zand Co., 18 How 272,
281, it was said "Among the legislative powers of Congress
are the powers 'to lay and collect taxes, duties, imposts and
and to make all laws which may be
excises,
necessary and proper for carrying into execution these
The power to collect and disburse revenue,
powers.'
and to make all laws which shall be necessary and proper for
carrying that power into effect, includes all known and
appropriate means of effectually collecting and disbursing
that revenue, unless some such means should be forbidden in
some other part of the Constitution."
.Arnson v ffur'phy, 109 U. S. 238, was a suit under the
revenue laws of the United States, wherein the plaintiffs
sought to recover moneys alleged to have been illegally
exacted by the collector for custom duties. The Circuit
Court applied the state statute of limitations, and directed
a verdict in favor of the defendant. This court held that the
limitation laws of the State in which the cause of action
arose, or in which the suit was brought, did not furmsh the
rule of decision, and that it was error in the Circuit Court to
apply, as a bar to the action, the limitation prescribed by the
state statute.
The conclusion reached is that that part of the decree of
the court below which dismissed the bill as to the International Cotton Press Company must be reversed, and that
the cause be remanded with directions to the court below to
Reversed.
proceed therein in conformity with this opnon.

