OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Statement of the Case.

CALIFORNIA v. SAN PABLO AND TULARE RAIL-

ROAD COMPANY
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES

FOR

THE

NORTHERN DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA.
No. 257. Argued April 24,1893. -Decided

May 10, 1893.

If, pending a writ of error to reverse a judgment for the defendant in an
action by a State to recover sums of money for taxes, the defendant offers
to the plaintiff, and deposits in a bank to its credit, the amount of those
sums, with penalties, interest and costs, which by a statute of the State
have the same effect as actual payment and receipt of the money the
writ of error must be dismissed.

THIS was an action, brought March 10, 1886, by the State of
California against the San Pablo and Tulare Railroad Com.pany, a corporation of California, in the Superior Court of the
city and county of San Francisco, (and thence removed by the
defendant into the Circuit Court of the United States, upon
the ground that it was a suit arising under the Constitution
and laws of the United States,) to recover taxes assessed by
the State Board of Equalization, under sections 4 and 10 of
article 13 of the constitution of California, (which are copied
in the margin,') as state and county taxes for the year July 1,
1 SEC. 4. A mortgage, deed of trust, contract or other obligation, by which
a debt is secured shall, for the purposes of assessment and taxation, be
deemed and treated as an interest in the property affected thereby. Except
as to railroad and other quasi public corporations, in case of debts.so secured, the value of the property affected by such mortgage, deed of trust,
contract or obligation, less the value of such security shall be assessed and
taxed to the owner of the property, and the value of such security shall be
assessed and taxed to the owner thereof in the county city or district in
which the property affected thereby is situate. The taxes so levied shall be
a lien upon the property and security, and may be paid by either party to
such security, if paid bythe owner of the security, the tax so levied upon the
property affected thereby shall become a part of the debt so secured, if the
owner of the property shall pay the tax so levied on such security, it shall
constitute a payment thereon, and to the extent of such payment a full discharge thereof. Provided, that if any such security or indebtedness shall

CALIFORNIA v. SAN PABLO &c. RAILROAD.

309

Statement of the Case.

1885, to June 30, 1886, upon the defendant's franchise, roadway roadbed, rails and rolling stock in the counties of Alameda, Contra Costa and San Joaquin.
The defendant, in its answer, filed March 19, 1886, and
averring the facts necessary to present the question, set up the
following defence: "The provision of section 4 of article 13
of the constitution of the State of California, providing for the
assessment of the property of railroad and other quasi public
corporations, is in contravention of the provisions of the
Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution of the United
States, in that it discriminates against such corporations; in
this, that whereas under said section 4 of said article 13 of the
constitution of the State of California, if the property of
natural persons, or corporations not quasi public, has a mortgage, lien or incumbrance thereon, they are not liable to assessment or taxation upon such property, but only upon the value
of their interest in such property over and above the value of
such mortgage, lien or incumbrance, whereas, in the case of
the property of railroad and other quasi public corporations,
no such allowance or deduction is made, had or allowed with
respect to any mortgage, lien or incumbrance there may be
upon such property, and also in this, that while section 10 of
article 13 of the constitution of the State of California provides the same mode for the assessment of the franchise, roadway, roadbed, rails and rolling stock of all railroads operated
in more than one county, whether such property be owned by
be paid by any such debtor or debtors, after assessment and before the tax
levy, the amount of such levy may likewise be retained by such debtor or
debtors, and shall be computed according to the tax levy for the preceding
year.
SEc. 10. All property, except as hereinafter m this section provided, shall
be assessed in the county, city, city and county, town, township or district
in which it is situated, in the manner prescribed by law. The franchise,
roadway, roadbed, rails and rolling stock of all railroads operated in more
than one county in this State shall be assessed by the State Board of Equalization, at their actual value; and the same shall be apportioned to the
counties, cities and counties, cities, towns, townships and districts in which
such railroads are located, in proportion to the number of miles of railway
laid in such counties, cities and counties, cities, towns, townships and districts.

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Statement of the Case.

railroad or other quasi public corporations or by private corporations or by natural persons, yet section 4 of article 13 of
said constitution permits or allows indebtedness secured by
mortgage, trust deed, or otherwise, to be deducted from the
value of such property, only when it is owned by natural persons or corporations not quasi public, and denies such deduction when the property is owned by railroad or other quasi
public corporations."
On July 14, 1886, the attorneys for the parties filed in this
and three similar cases the following stipulation in writing
"It is hereby stipulated that jury trials in the above entitled
actions are hereby waived, and that said causes may be submitted to the court upon the testimony referred to in the stipulation this day made and filed in the case of The People of
the State of Calzforn'ia v The Central Paaftc Railroad Company, subject to the same terms and conditions. It is hereby
further stipulated that special findings of facts in all of the
above entitled actions are waived. It is hereby further stipulated and agreed that the said case of The People of the State
of Californa v The Central Pacjfi Railroad Company shall
by the losing party be taken to the Supreme Court of the
United States, and that the decision of said court in said case
shall be applicable to and be treated by each party as the
decision of said court in the above entitled actions, it being
the intention and desire of the parties hereto to save the expense of separate writs of error, and that all the above entitled
actions shall abide the final decision of said Supreme Court of
the United States in the said case of The People of the State
of Californsa v The Central Paczc Railroad Company, provided the said decision shall be made upon points involved
therein, and if not so made, then the judgments in any of
the above cases m which the point is not involved shall be
set aside and findings of fact therein shall be made."
On July 15, 1886, the Circuit Court gave judgment for the
defendant in the present case.
In the case of California v Central Paczige Railroad, referred to in that stipulation, this court did not decide the
question now presented, but on April 30, 1888, reversed the

CALIFORNIA v. SAN PABLO &c. RAILROAD.

311

Statement of the Case.

judgment of the Circuit Court on other grounds. 127 U. S.
1, 45.
On March 6, 1889, the parties, by another stipulation in
writing, agreed that the previous judgment of the Circuit
Court in the present case be set aside, and the case submitted
to the Circuit Court upon an agreed statement of facts, "on
which findings shall be made and conclusions of law drawn by
the court."
On September 6, 1889, the Circuit Court, pursuant to this
stipulation, ordered its former judgment to be set aside, and
made and filed findings of fact in accordance with the agreed
statement.
By these findings of facts, it appeared that, before and at
the time of the assessment of these taxes, the defendant owed
a debt secured by mortgage of its railroad, its franchise and
its rolling stock and appurtenances, to the amount of more
than $3000 a mile, that the State Board of Equalization
valued and assessed the defendant's franchise, roadway, roadbed, rails and rolling stock, not separately, but together, (and
not including any other kind of property,) at their full value,
without deducting the value of the mortgage or any part
thereof, although knowing of its existence, and did not deem
or treat the mortgage as an interest in the property, and assessed the whole value of the property to the defendant as if
there had been no mortgage thereon, but made the assessment
upon the same basis for valuation as all other property in the
State was valued for the purpose of taxation, and that there
were at that time divers railroads in the State, owned and
operated by corporations other than railroad corporations,
and by individuals and partnerships.
Upon the facts found, the Circuit Court concluded, as matter
of law, that the defendant was entitled to judgment. Judgment was entered accordingly, and the State of California
sued out this writ of error.
The Attorney General of the State admitted in his brief,
and, when this case was called for argument, stated in open
court, the following fact:
"In the year 1893, the defendant offered and tendered to

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Mr. William H. H. Hart, for the State of California.

the plaintiff a sum of money equal to the taxes, penalties, interest and attorney's fee, to recover which this action was
brought, and costs of suit, which offer and tender have not
been accepted, but the money has been deposited by the
defendant in bank, in accordance with the provisions of section
1500 of the Civil Code of California, which reads as follows
' An obligation for the payment of money is extinguished by
a due offer of payment, if the amount is immediately deposited
in the name of the creditor, with some bank of deposit within
this State of good repute, and notice thereof is given to the
creditor.'"
Ab WillhamI H. HHart, Attorney General for the State
of California, after stating the fact of the offei and deposit
of money as aforesaid, said
I respectfully submit that this offer should not prevent the
hearing of this cause and a decision of the constitutional question involved.
There are other cases depending upon the determination of
this. It will be seen in the record, that there was a stipulation
in this case, and three others, that the decision that might be
made in this court in the case of The People of the State of
Californzao v The Central Paczfo Railroad Co., should be
treated as a decision in all of the cases, provided the decision
should be upon points involved therein, and if not so made,
then the judgment of the Circuit Court in any of these cases
should be set aside and findings of fact therein made. That
case having been decided against the State because the assessment included steamboats and federal franchise, (see 127 U S.
1,) and the question made in the present case under the Fourteenth Amendment not having been passed upon, counsel of
the parties signed a stipulation to have the judgment set aside
in this case, and to submit the same to the Circuit Court upon
the facts stated in the stipulation, and it was accordingly thus
submitted and decided by the Circuit Court, the design of the
stipulation thus submitting the case being to obtain a decision
which would also dispose of the remaining two cases embraced

CALIFORNIA v. SAN PABLO &c. RAILROAD.

313

Opinion of the Court.

in the stipulation first made, that stipulation having been made
to carry out the design of the first, that is, to obtain a decision
that will dispose of all these cases.
Therefore, nothing short of a payment of what is claimed
in those two cases, as well as in this, should be regarded as
dispensing with a decision of the constitutional question raised
in this case, and which is the same in the three cases.
It is of the utmost importance to the people of the State of
California, that it be determined whether an assessment
of the property of railroad corporations in the manner required by the constitution of California is valid, so it may be
known, when these assessments are made, whether they can
be included in the sources of revenue that can be relied upon
in the administration of the government of that State, or
whether such corporations are at liberty to decline to pay
taxes, and to pay only what sums and when they may
choose, merely as voluntary contributions to the public funds
of California.
The court declined to hear further argument.
.Xr George A. 7ohnson, a former Attorney General of the
State of California, and ,Mr &,tmue Sbellalrgerand .Mr Jeremzah .1. T rison also submitted briefs for the plaintiff in error.
-Yr George F Edrunds, -lf ITarvey S. Brown and Mlr
Creed Haymond submitted briefs on the merits for the defendant in error.
-Mr Harvey.S. Brown also submitted a brief on a motion
to dismiss the writ of error.
MR. JUSTi

E

GRAY delivered the opinion of the court.

Upon the fact most properly and frankly admitted in open
court by the Attorney General of the State of California,
there can be no doubt that this writ of error must be dismissed,
because the cause of action has ceased to exist. Any obligation of the defendant to pay to the State the sums sued for in
this case, together with interest, penalties and costs, has been

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

extinguished by the offer to pay all these sums, and the deposit of the money in a bank, which by a statute of the State
have the same effect as actual payment and receipt of the
money And the State has obtained everything that it could
recover in this case by a judgment of this court in its favor.
The duty of this court, as of every judicial tribunal, is limited
to determining rights of persons or of property, which are actually controverted in the particular case before it. When, in
determining such rights, it becomes necessary to give an
opinion upon a question of law, that opinion may have weight
as a precedent for future decisions. But the court is not empowered to decide moot questions or abstract propositions, or
to declare, for the government of future cases, principles or
rules of law which cannot affect the result as to the thing
in issue in the case before it. No stipulation of parties or
counsel, whether in the case before the court or in any other
case, can enlarge the power, or affect the duty, of the court in
this regard.
The cas& at bar cannot be distingmshed in principle from
previous cases in which writs of error have been dismissed by
this court under similar or analogous circumstances. Lord v
eazte, 8 How 251, 255, Clevelaand v Chamberlam, 1 Black,
419, Wood PaperCo. v Reft, 8 Wall. 333, San .Aateo County
v Southern Pacific Railroad,116 U. S. 138 , Little v Bowers, 134 U. S. 547, Singer ,J anuf Co. v WVrght, 141 U S.
696. See also .Egmv ..Aarshail, 106 U S. 578.
Writ of arordismtssed.

