OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Statement of the Case.

DUER v. CORBIN CABINET LOCK COMPANY
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF THE

UNITED STATES

FOR

THE DISTRICT OF CONNECTICUT.
No. 191. Submitted March 28, 1893. -Decided

May 1, 1893.

The invention claimed in letters patent No. 262,977, issued August 22, 1882,
to Morris L. Orum for an improvement in locks for furniture, in view
of the previous state of the art had no patentable novelty.
The mere fact that a patented article is popular and meets with large and
increasing sales is unimportant when the alleged invention is clearly
without patentable novelty.

THIS was a bill in equity for the infringement of letters
patent No. 262,977, issued August 22,1882, to Morris L. Orum,
for an improvement in locks for furniture, such as are used on
bureau or desk drawers, or the doors of wardrobes, washstands, &c., and as stated by the patentee in his specification
"It has for its object to provide a lock of such shape as to
adapt it fot insertion in a mortise of peculiar form, whereby
a pair of the securing screws or nails is dispensed with, and
the case of the lock is held laterally in the mortise by reason
of its conformity thereto in shape."
The following drawings illustrate the lock and mortise in
which it is held.
FIRI -

D1]-EIR v. CORBINT CABINET LOOK CO.
Counsel for Appellant.

The patentee further said in his specification
"The lock costs no more than an ordinary one of equal
quality, and to attach it one tack is used, instead of four
screws, as usual, but the main advantage is due to the saving
of time and labor in making the mortise, and to the superiority
of the finished job by reason of the fact that the lock-plate is
countersunk in the wood, instead of lying upon its surface.
This result has never heretofore been attained, except by hand
chiselling, which is a slow and tedious process.
CCI
am aware that looks arranged to dovetail into their
mortises are not broadly new, and such I do not claim."
His claim, and there was but a single one, was as follows
' The lock herein described, having a dovetail cap and top
plate, and a front plate projecting laterally and below the
cap and rounded at the bottom, whereby the look is adapted
for insertion in a mortise formed by a laterally-cutting bit,
and when in place is sustained by a countersunk front plate,
as set forth."
The answer set up certain anticipating devices owned by
the defendant, and the case was heard in the court below
upon the pleadings and proofs, and the bill dismissed. 37
Fed. Rep. 338. Plaintiff thereupon appealed to this court.
MT Benjamm, Pntce and -Mr WilmartA H. Thurston for
appellant.

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opmion of the Court.

.XPT John P
appellee.
MP.

JUSTiCE.

Bartltt and _HP Charles E. 3litchell for

BRoww delivered the opinion of the court.

The old and familiar style of furniture lock in use from
time out of mmd was enclosed in a shell or case, square or
nearly so, and attached to a rectangular plate turned over
at the top to form what is termed a selvedge, through which
the bolt passed. A key-post also projected some distance beyond the back plate of the shell toward the front of the
drawer. The lock so constructed was inserted m a rectangular mortise cut out to receive it, and secured to the drawer by
four screws through the four corners of the broad front
plate.
The peculiar shape of the cavity reqmred the mortising to
be done by hand, which took considerable time, and added
largely to the expense of the furniture. Indeed, the lock itself in some instances cost less than the expense of mortising
the recess to receive it. The need had been felt for a long
tine of a lock of such shape that it could be received into a
rounded cavity, which was capable of being excavated by
machinery
This want was first met by a lock invented by one Gory,
for which a patent was issued to him April 22, 1873, numbered 138,148. This patent consisted of "such a construction of the shell or frame of the lock that it is adapted to
fasten itself within a routed cavity in the wood, and thus dispense with mortising and fastening screws." "The shell, A,"
said the patentee, " is so constructed that upon each side of
the rear face (and by the rear face is understood the face
nearest the front of the drawer) an extension projection or
wing, a, is formed, which, when snugly fitted into a corresponding depression, b, at each side of the routed cavity, B, serves
to retain the lock securely in the routed cavity In this way
the recess for the reception of the lock for drawers or similar
uses, instead of being a mortise necessarily cut by a slowly
operating mortising machine, is an open sided recess made

DUER v. CORBIl

CABINET LOOK CO.

Opinion of the Court.

almost instantly by the rapidly-revolving tool of a routingmachine or groover.
This improved form of lock,
when driven snugly into a routed cavity such as is described,
requires no fastemng screws to hold it in place, and consequently reduces the expense of the lock and fastening in addition to the reduced cost of producing the cavity to receive it."
This was the underlying patent of all similar devices, and
while it never seems to have come into general use, subsequent patents have been merely improvements upon it.
The peculiar feature of is patent was not only in rounding
the bottom of the lock so that it could be admitted into a
cavity cut out by a revolving tool known as a router, but in
making the cavity larger in the rear than in the front, so that
a lock correspondingly shaped might be slipped into the cavity
from above, and held there without the aid of screws.
While the single claim of this patent was confined to a
lock whose frame is made with side extensions at the rear face,
to enable the lock to be firmly secured in the routed cavity,
several different forms of cavity are shown in the drawings,
nearly all of which are dovetailed in such manner that the
lock is received and held in position without the aid of other
fastenings. This lock was a most ingenious device, and no
doubt involved patentable novelty Three-fourths of this
patent now belong to the defendant. There was a difficulty
with it, however, in the fact that the patentee took off all
the projections from the old style of lock, including those of
the broad front plate, through which the screws were inserted,
which was cut off so as to be flush with the side of the shell,
the projecting key-post which was cut flush with the face of
the cap, and the top plate or selvedge through which the bolt
is passed. It consisted merely of a shell fitted snugly upon
all sides into a cavity routed out of the exact size to receive
it. For these or other reasons, the lock never seems to have
gone into general use. Indeed, the evidence is that it was
never used at all.
Next in order of time is patent numbered 24:1,828, issued
May 24, 1881, to Henry L. Spiegel. In this device "the back
plate of the lock" (that is, the plate nearest the front of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

drawer) "is made to project on each side of the lock, and
adapted to fit a groove or dovetail formed in the inner surface
of the drawer front," the object of the improvement being to
provide a lock which may be secured in its receptacle without
the aid of screws. The lock shown was of the ordinary pattern, except that its back plate was provided with projecting
edges, designed to fit in a groove and hold the lock fast. "It
is obvious," said the patentee, "that the groove B may be made
dovetailed, and the edges G of the back plate bent to a corresponding angle to fit therein, if desired." His claim was for a
cabinet lock with its rear plate projecting beyond each side of
the lock-case, and having the upper part of each projection
bent toward the front plate, which front plate had a slit and
strip, which, when the lock is forced home, was set into the
wood by a hammer, and thus the lock was held from workimg out of its receptacle. This patent is also owned by the
defendant.
His idea was in substance that of so constructing the lock
that there should be a space between the front and rear plates
to receive the walls of a routed mortise. Both the front and
back plate, however, as well as the selvedge, were made rectangular, and hence the lock was no better adapted for insertion
in a routed cavity than was the old-style lock. This lock also
seems to have been a failure in practical use, and so far as the
record shows none were ever constructed under the patent.
On April 23, 1883, Spiegel filed an application for another
-patent,which was issued to him April 21, 1885, two and onehalf years after the Orum patent in suit, but as the lock was
invented before that of Orum, and as Orum had full knowledge
of it before he made his alleged invention, it should be con-sidered as part of the art as it existed at the date of the Orum
-patent.
In his specification, speaking of prior devices, and appar'ently of the Gory patent, the patentee states "In view of the
fact that locks constructed with projecting key-posts possessed
certain advantages that met the demand of the trade, the
peculiar construction of lock above described, with its flush
key-post and adapted to be driven into a routed cavity, failed

DUER v. COIRBIN CABINET LOCK 00.
Opinion of the Court.

of introduction, preference being given to the old form of
lock-case, with its projecting key-post, though it necessitated
the hand-chiselled mortise and fastening-screws for its attachment." Speaking of his own prior patent of Iay 24, 1881, he
says "The lock-case being thus secured at its sides, allowed
of a space or recess being formed in the rear wall of the mortise and in rear of the cap-plate for the reception of the projecting key-posts, which space was covered and concealed from
view by the projecting top plate for selvedge. While this.
latter construction of lock possessed valuable features of improvement not disclosed by the prior art, yet the form of lock
shown and described in the patent is such as to preclude its.
adoption for use in routed cavities, because tins front plate isnot of the proper form to fit within and cover a cavity made
by a routing tool. The object of this invention is to obviatethe objectionable features and defects hereinbefore set forth,
and provide a lock-case of such form and construction that it
may have a projecting key-post, if so desired, and be secured
within a routed cavity, and snugly retained therein, so as to
conceal the cavity from view, and form a neat and finished
appearance when in place. With these ends in view my invention consists in a lock-case having its edges constructed to
engage or interlock with the side walls of a routed cavity,
and provided with a front plate having a rounded bottomadapted to fit within a countersunk recess around the routed
cavity, and constitute a support for the lock-case and conceal
the cavity from view" This lock differs from the prior Spiegel
patent principally in being rounded at the bottom so as to be
fitted to a routed cavity, and prevent the displacement of the
lock either in a forward or backward direction, and also in
having a space in the rear wall of the cavity for a projectingkey-post.
This was practically the state of the art when Orumn's patent.
was granted. In this patent the shell or case of the lock is.
dovetailed to fit a corresponding dovetailed cavity, and the
selvedge is also made of similar dovetail shape. The front.
plate projects upon each side of the case and is rounded at.
the bottom, so that it may be fitted to a routed cavity The-

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

look is held in position by two tacks through the upper
corners of the front plate, or by a single tack driven through
a hole at the base of the plate. To insert the lock, it is
simply slipped down into place in the mortise and secured
against lifting by one or more tacks which are used merely
to prevent the look from slipping out of the mortise, and are
not called upon to resist a strain. His claim is for "the lock
herein described, having a dovetail cap and top plate, and a
front plate projecting laterally and below the cap and rounded
at the bottom, whereby the lock is adapted for insertion in a
mortise formed by a laterally-cutting bit, and when in position
is sustained by a countersunk front plate, as set forth." There
is no mention made, in the specification or claim, of a projecting key-post or of any space for its reception, although such
a key-post is shown in the drawing, and it was evidently
intended that the mortise should be made deep enough to
receive it, or that a special channel should be cut out for that
purpose. The selvedge was made wide enough to cover a
cavity corresponding m depth to the projection of such keypost.
In view of the advance that had been made by prior inventors, it is difficult to see wherein Orum displayed anything
more than the usual skill of a mechanic in the execution of
his device.
All that he claims as invention is found in one or more of
the prior patents. The dovetailed cavity and the correspondingly shaped case or shell is only a copy of a cavity shown in
Fig. 8 of the Gory patent, and it certainly required no invention to make the top plate or selvedge of the same shape
so as to completely cover the cavity
The projecting front
plate rounded at the bottom is shown in the second Spiegel
patent, both of these patents also exhibiting a projecting back
and front plate, and a projection or groove in the mortise
between them. Neither is the countersunk recess for the
reception of the front plate novel, since it is also found in the
second patent to Spiegel, and expressly set forth as an element of his first two claims. In each case it is used for
the purpose of supporting the lock vertically, and also of

DUER v. CORBIN CABINET LOCK CO.
Opinion of the Court.

preventing it falling backward against the inner wall of the
mortise.
In view of the fact that -Mr.Orum had no actual knowledge
of the Gory patent, he may rightfully claim the quality of
invention m the conception of his own device, but as he is
deemed m a legal point of new to have had this and all other
prior patents before him, his title to invention rests upon
modifications of these, too trivial to be the subject of serious
consideration. ris "radically new idea of making the mortise as deep as the width of the projecting selvedge and of
cutting out the selvedge at its ends," as claimed by his counsel,
was such as would have occurred at once to an ordinarily
intelligent mechanic who had the previous devices before
him. To speak of these trifling variations as involving months
of labor, thought, and experiment is a misuse of words. In
his own testimony, Mr. Orum,who was called as a witness by
the defendant, says that if he had been acquainted with the
Gory patent he would have had no difficulty in making the
top plate of the Spiegel lock conform to a dovetailed cavity,
or any other routed cavity While the testimony of a patentee
in derogation of his own patent is usually open to some suspicion, this opunon is so obviously correct that it needs only a
comparison of his device with those of Gory and Spiegel to
confirm it.
It is true the Orum lock seems to have gained an immediate
popularity, to have met with large and increasing sales, and
to have had the usual effect of successful patents in stimnulating
the activity of business competitors to produce an equally
useful and popular device. Were the question of patentability
one of doubt this might suffice to turn the scale in favor of
the patentee. But there are so many other considerations
than that of novelty entering into a question of this kind that
the popularity of the article becomes an unsafe criterion. For
instance, a man may, by the aid of an alluring trade-mark,
succeed in catching the eye of the people, and palming off
upon them wares of no greater intrinsic value than those of
his rivals, but such trade-mark may be, and usually is, wholly
destitute of originality, often taken from some prior publica-

