BIBB v. ALLEN.
Syllabus.

BIBB v. ALLEN.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
MIDDLE DISTRICT OF ALABAMA.
No. 269. Argued April 28,1893.-Decided May 10, 1893.
Motions to suppress depositions for irregularities should be made before
the case is called for trial, so that opportunity may be afforded to correct the defects or to retake the testimony.
A variance between the notice and the commission to take depositions such
as misspelling the commissioner's name in the latter, affords no valid
ground for the suppression of the depositions.
Where a principal sends an order to a broker doing business in an established market or trade, for a deal in that trade, he thereby confers upon
the broker authority to deal according to any well-settled usage in such
trade or market, especially when such usage is known to the principal,
and is fair in itself, and does not change any essential particular of the
contract between the principal and the broker, or involve any departure
from the principal's instructions; provided the transaction for which
the broker is employed be lawful in character and is not violative of
good morals or public policy.
In an action by A., a cotton broker doing business on the New York Cotton
Exchange, against B. for moneys claimed to be due for advances and
commissions on account of various transactions for B. in selling as his
agent cotton for future delivery it was not error to admit in evidence
the statutes of New York under which the said Cotton Exchange was
organized, together with the rules and regulations of that body in pursuance of which the transactions in question were conducted, it appearing that B. knew that A. when acting as his agent, would transact the
business through that Exchange, and in accordance with its rules and
regulations.
By the agreed use of Shepperson's code, which provided that " unless otherwise stated as agreed, it is distinctly understood that all orders sent by
this chapter are to be subject in every respect to the by-laws and rules
of the market where executed," and further, that "with every telegram
sent by this table the following sentence will be read as a part of the
message, viz., this sale has been made subject to all the by-laws and rules
of our cotton exchange in reference to contracts for the future delivery
of cotton," the rules and regulations which were authorized to be made
by the statutes of New York, under which the exchange was incorporated, entered into and formed a part of the transactions in this case.
Contracts for the future delivery of personal property which the vendor
does not own or possess, but expects to obtain by purchase or otherwise,
VOL. cx~ux-31

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Statement of the Case.
are valid, if at the time of making the contract an actual transfer of the
property is contemplated by at least one of the parties to the transaction.
Slip contracts, in the form prescribed by the rules and regulations of the
Cotton Exchange, constitute bought and sold notes, which, taken together, as they should be, afford a sufficient memorandum in writing
between the brokers, or their principal, and the vendee of the cotton to
satisfy the requirements of the statute of frauds.
The defence of the statute of frauds cannot be set up against an executed
contract.
The employment of a broker to sell property for future delivery implies
not only an undertaking to indemnify the broker in respect to the execution of his agency, but also implies a promise on the part of the principal to repay or reimburse him for such losses or expenditures as may
become necessary or result from the performance of the agency.
B. and H. being sued as partners, and it appearing from the proof that H.
was not a partner but merely a clerk, no ob3ection to the misjoinder
having been made by either of the defendants, judgment for the whole
amount was properly entered against B., a substantial cause of action
having been established.
The case of Irwin v. Williar, 110 U. S. 449, distinguished.

THm defendants in error, citizens of the States of New York
and Tennessee, and doing business in the city of New York
as brokers, commission merchants, and cotton factors, under
the firm name and style of Richard H. Allen & Company,
brought this action of assumpsit, in February, 1887, against
the plaintiff in error and one Hopkins, citizens of Alabama, as
partners under the name of B. S. Bibb & Company, to recover the sum of $20,023.50 with interest, which was claimed
as commissions for services rendered, and money paid and
advanced by them for, and at the request of, the defendants
in s6lling, for their account and as their agents, cotton for
future delivery according to the rules and regulations of the
New York Cotton Exchange, in the city of New York.
The declaration or complaint was in the usual form, and
contained but a single count for work and labor done, services
rendered, and money paid out and expended by the plaintiffs
during the month of December, 1886, at the instance and
request of the defendants, to the amount of $20,023.50, which,
with interest thereon, was averred to be past due and unpaid.
Neither of them deThe defendants answered separately

BIBB v. ALLEN.
Statement of the Case.

nied the existence of a partnership between them, but both
defended upon the merits. The answer of the defendant
Hopkins consisted of two pleas (1) non-assumpsit, (2) that
the plaintiffs did not do the work and labor or pay the
money mentioned in the complaint at his instance or request.
The defendant Bibb filed an answer containing five pleas, the
first two of which were the same as those interposed by Hop-

kins. His third plea was a general denial of the allegations
of the complaint, while the fourth and fifth averred that the
work and labor performed by the plaintiffs, as set forth in
their declaration, was the making of eleven wagers for him
on the price of cotton, and that the money paid by the plaintiffs for hin was in the settlement of the losses of those wagers,
and in each of these pleas the statute of the State of New
York against wagers, bets, and gambling transactions was set
out.
After issue joined on the pleas, the defendant Bibb, by leave
of the court, filed a sixth plea, setting up that on November
10, 1886, the plaintiffs, as special agents for hin, sold 10,000
bales of cotton by various contracts, as a speculation, and for
future delivery in New York, and averred that the plaintiffs
by their gross negligence and unskilfulness made said contracts in such forms that all of said contracts, under the laws
of the State of New York, were unlawful and void, and not
binding on any one of the parties to said contracts, or either
of them, in this, that in and by the statute law of New York,
in force at the time said contracts were made, it is declared
that "every contract for the sale of any goods, chattels, or
things in action, for the price of $50 or more, shall be void
unless (1) a note or memorandum of such contract be made in
writing, and be subscribed by the parties to be charged
thereby, or (2) unless the buyer shall accept and receive a part
of such goods, or the evidences or some of them of such things
in action, or (3) unless the buyer shall at the tune pay some
part of the purchase money 1 It was further averred that no
note or memorandum of any of the contracts of sale, made
by plaintiffs for defendant, was made in writing and signed
by the parties to be charged thereby, that no part of said

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Statement of the Case.

cotton was accepted by the buyer, and no part of the purchase
money was paid therefor. The plea further alleged that on
December 30, 1886, the plaintiffs, without the request of the
defendants, but voluntarily, settled said void contracts, and
paid to the buyers of the cotton under such contracts large
sums of money, and concluded with the averment that, without this, the plaantiffs never did any work, or paid any money
for the defendant.
Upon the trial of the cause before the court and a jury, the
court, after stating to the jury that there was no evidence in
the case upon which a verdict for the defendant Bibb could
rest, on the ground that the contract sued on was a gambling
contract and therefore void, further instructed them that "the
defendant Bibb did not in his testimony deny the correctness
of the account sued on, but did say that the plaintiffs were
liable to him for their failure to execute his subsequent orders
to them to sell, for future delivery, some twenty-two thousand
bales of cotton, as shown in the evidence in this cause, but
there being no claims by him in this suit against the plaintiffs
on account of such failure to execute such orders, 'I charge
you that if you believe the evidence you should find a verdict
for the plaintiffs against the defendant Bibb for the amount
of the account and interest.'" The court further charged the
jury* "This case is made out as to defendant 1B. S. Bibb, and
it is your duty to find a verdict against him for the account
sued on and interest."
To the instruction that if they believed the evidence they
should find a verdict for the plaintiffs against him for the
account sued on and interest, the defendant Bibb excepted.
The jury returned the following verdict "We the jury, find
for the plaintiffs against the defendant Bibb, and assess the
damages at $22,476.38, and we find for the defendant T. H.
Hopkins on the ground that he was not a partner of B. S.
Bibb." Upon a return of this verdict the defendant Bibb
objected to a judgment being rendered against him thereon,
for the reason that the complaint and pleadings and said verdict did not authorize a judgment against him. No other
ground of objection was stated or interposed. The court over-

BIBB v. ALLENT.
Argument for rlaintiffs m Error.

ruled Ins objection, and entered judgment against him for the
amount found by the jury, to winch Bibb excepted. The
present writ of error was prosecuted by him to reverse that
judgment.
-Mi . W Pettus,(with whom was Mr George H. Craig on
the brief,) for plaintiffs m error.
The deposition of Richard H. Allen should have been suppressed. It was attempted to be taken according to the laws
of Alabama instead of pursuant to the statutes of the United
States. The alleged commission was issued to George If.
Carey instead of to George H. Corey, the commissioner named
in the notice served upon counsel for defendants. For these
and other reasons a. motion to suppress the deposition was
made "before the trial commenced."
Whether the New York Cotton Exchange was incorporated
or was a mere voluntary association was immaterial to any
question in this case. The admission in evidence of the
statutes of INew York under which it was organized, together
with the rules and regulations pursuant to which the business
of the Exchange was conducted was therefore error. Nor did
it matter that the transactions in question were conducted in
accordance with the then prevailing course of business of the
Exchange. The attempt was to prove a custom or course of
business of a merely temporary character. United States v.
Buchanan, 8 How 82. Custom or course of business cannot
change the law, nor make a contract valid, which the statute
declares void.
The "slip contracts" admitted in evidence could not and
do not constitute a sufficient note or memorandum in writIng
to satisfy the statute of frauds of the State of iNew York.
They do not contain in themselves the whole of the contract.
MrWght v. TFeeks, 25 N'T. Y 153, Tilliarasv. .Morris, 95 U. S.
444, 454, 456. The contract to be valid need not necessarily
be contained in one writing, but when contained in more than
one writing such writings cannot be connected by parol evi-

V/

OCTOBER TERAI, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

Wlrsght v Weeks, 25 N. Y., supra, Carter v.
deuce merely
Shorter, 57 Alabama, 253, Carroll v Powell, 48 Alabama,
298, Adams v .2JoZillan, 7 Porter, (Ala.,) 73. Both parties
must be named in the written contract. An agent is entitled
to his commissions only on due performance of all duties of
his agency These contracts being void and not enforceable
in the courts of the State where made plaintiffs axe not entitled to recover from defendants.
If Allen & Co. had made these sales for Bibb in legal form,
and had then paid the losses for Bibb the law would have
implied a promise on Bibb's part to pay Allen & Co. But
the contracts were void under the statutes of frauds of New
York. Allen & Co. were not legally bound to pay the losses,
hence if they paid the money it was without actual request
on part of Bibb, and without any implied promise on his part
to repay them.
This declaration was against Bibb and Hopkins as partners,
under the style of Bibb & Company, the verdict is against
Bibb alone. It is conclusively established by the verdict that
there was no such contract made by the partnershipas alleged
in the complaint, hence there is no cause of action which will
serve to support the recovery adjudged. Walker v .Mobile
Afarne Dock and Ins. Co., 31 Alabama, 529, 531.
-Mr A. A. Tiley for defendants in error.
MR. JusTicE JAcKsoN, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.

The plaintiff in error has filed nineteen assignments of
error, which may be grouped under five heads or propositions,
viz. (1) that the court erred m overruling the motion to
suppress the deposition of the witness Richard H. Allen, (2)
that the court erred in admitting as evidence the statutes of
New York, under which the New York Cotton Exchange was
incorporated, and the rules and regulations of the Exchange,
together with the parol testimony that the transactions in

BIBB v. ALLEN.
Opinion of the Court.

question between the parties were conducted in accordance
with those rules and regulations, (3) that the contracts for

the sale of cotton for future delivery were gambling contracts
within the meaning of the New York statute against wagers,
bets, etc., (4) that said contracts were invalid under the
statute of frauds of the State of New York, and (5) that
under the pleadings no judgment could be rendered against
the defendant Bibb alone.
The questions thus presented may be properly considered in
the order stated, under the facts disclosed by the bill of
exceptions. The motion to suppress the deposition .of the
witness Richard H. Allen was based on the ground that no
commission was issued out of the court, or by the clerk
thereof, authorizing George H. Corey, as commissioner, to
take the deposition , and, secondly, that neither of the
defendants or their attorneys received any notice of the time
and place of taking the deposition, or of the residence of
either the witness or the commissioner by whom the deposition was taken. These objections to the deposition are clearly
not well taken, for several reasons It is shown by the record
that on April 7, 1888, a notice was issued and served on the
defendants that plaintiffs would take the deposition of the
witness Allen, whose place of business was stated in the notice
to be 31 and 33 Broad Street, New York city, and that
George H. Corey, whose place of business was 60 Wall Street,
in that city, would be suggested as commissioner to take such
deposition, and that a copy of the interrogatories to be propounded to the witness was attached to the notice. It further
appears that at that time the defendant Bibb objected to a
commission being issued to take the deposition on the interrogatories to be propounded by the plaintiffs, basing his
objection on the ground that the notice did not give the
residence of the witness and of the commissioner, and on the
further ground that no sufficient affidavit for the taking of
the deposition had been filed, which objections were-ananifestly insufficient, inasmuch as the place of business of both
the witness and the commissioner was stated, and an affidavit
was filed by the attorney for the plaintiffs which showed

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

proper ground for taking the deposition. Without invoking
the action of the court upon these objections, the defendant
Bibb filed cross-interrogatories to those propounded by the
plaintiffs, and on April 18, 1888, a commission was regularly
issued to saad George H. Corey, as commissioner, to take the
deposition on the interrogatories and cross-interrogatories
filed, in accordance with the terms of the notice served upon
the defendants. The record further shows that the deposition
was actually taken m pursuance of the commission thus issued,
and was in all respects regular and in proper legal form. The
clerk of the court in issuing the commission addressed it,
however, to George H. Carey, Esq., 60 Wall Street, New
York city, instead of to George iH. Corey, but that was purely
a clerical mistake m making out the commission, and in no
way misled the defendant or affected his rights. He had
been notified of the place of taking the deposition, and been
given the true name of the commissioner, and the slight
variance in the commission which issued was not material,
and furnished no valid ground for the suppression of the
deposition. .Keene v Ifieade, 3 Pet. 1, 6.
But, aside from this, the motion to suppress the deposition
came too late. As already said, the commission to take the
deposition of said Allen was issued April 18, 1888. The
deposition was taken before the proper commissioner on May
17, 1888, and, after transmission to the clerk of the court, was
by him published, under a general order of the court, May 29,
1888. The May term of the court was then in session, and
continued in session until July 8, 1888. The November term
commenced on the first Monday of that month. During all
that time the defendant Bibb made no objection to the deposition, and gave no notice that he would move to suppress it,
but waited until January 10, 1889, the day set for the trial of
the cause, when, after a motion for a continuance, then made,
had been overruled, he, for the first time, moved to suppress
the deposition. If the deposition was in any respect open to
irregularities, the motion to suppress it, under the circumstances, came too late. Such motions should be made before
the case is called for trial, so as to afford opportunity to retake

BIBB v. AMLEN.
Opinion of the Court.

the testimony or correct defects in the taking of the deposition. iloward v Stillwell & Bteree Mfg. Co., 139 U. S. 199,
205, and cases cited. The same rule of practice prevails in
Alabama. De 7endal v. Aalone, 25 Alabama, 272, 278,
Bizrm'nghan Uwiom Biy. Co. v. Alexander, 93 Alabama, 133.
This assignment of error is, therefore, without merit.
The next assignment of error relied on is m the action of
the court admitting in evidence the statutes of New York
under winch the New York Cotton Exchange was organized,
together with the rules and regulations of that body under
and in pursuance of which the transactions in question were
conducted. Tins evidence was clearly competent and relevant, because the contracts entered into between Bibb &
Company and the plaintiffs contemplated that the business
which the plaintiffs would transact for their principals would
be under, and in accordance with, the rules and regulations of
the New York Cotton Exchange. It was proper, therefore,
to show that this Cotton Exchange was a lawful body, organized for lawful business purposes, and had power to make
such rules and regulations as imght be deemed necessary and
proper to carry out the purpose of its organization. It is
clearly shown that B. S. Bibb & Company knew that the
plaintiffs did business as cotton factors in that Exchange, and
m accordance with those rules and regulations, and that, in
acting as their agents in the sale of cotton for future delivery,
they would transact the business through that Exchange, and
in accordance with its rules and regulations. It was, therefore, germane to the issues in the case, and was both competent and relevant to prove that the contract between the
parties had been carred out on the part of the plaantiffs in
the mode and according to the methods contemplated by the
parties. Peabody v Sveyers, 56 N. Y 230, 236, _Nickalls v
.Merry, L. IR.7 H. L. 530, 542.
It is settled by the weight of authority that where a principal sends an order to a broker engaged in an. established
market or trade, for a deal in that trade, he confers authority
upon the broker to deal according to any well-established usage
in such market or trade, especially when such usage is known

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

to the principal, and is fair in itself, and does not change m
any essential particular the contract between the principal and
agent, or involves no departure from the instructions of the

principal, provided, the transaction for which the broker is
employed is legal in its character, and does not violate any

rule of law, good morals, or public policy

We are of opinion,

therefore, that the assignment of error based upon the admission of this testimony is not well taken.

Upon the third assignment of error, which presents the
question whether the transactions in which the parties were
engaged were illegal, because they were wagering contracts
under the New York statute against wagers, bets, etc., the
evidence in the case clearly fails to make out such a defence.
In entering into their arrangement, it is shown by the correspondence and by other testimony m the case that there was
no agreement or understanding between the plaintiffs and
defendants that the cotton sold for future delivery was not in
fact to be actually delivered. In their correspondence as to
the terms on which the agency was to be undertaken the
plaintiffs were distinctly informed that the defendants did a
large business for the best and most reliable people of their
locality, that they would hold themselves personally responsible for all orders sent, and hold their correspondents responsible for all orders executed as to margins, that they handled,
sometimes, from 3000 to 5000 bales of cotton a day, and that
their customers dealt in orders for from 500 to 1000 bales at
a time, and were entirely responsible. It was also testified
by both the plaintiffs and defendant Bibb that there was no
understanding or agreemente either express or implied, between
them at the time of entering upon the transactions or during
their progress, that the cotton sold for account of the principals was not to be delivered at the time stipulated in the contracts of sale made for their account. It is not questioned
that if the transactions in which the parties are engaged are
illegal, the agent cannot recover either commissions for services
rendered therein, or for advances and disbursements by him
for Ins principal, (Story on Agency, §§ 330, 344, and authorities
cited,) the reason for this rule being that in such illegal trans-

BIBB v. ALLEN.

491-

Opinion of the Court.

actions of which the agent has knowledge he is regarded as
.articeps onrmnits, which precludes him from the recovery of
either comnnmsions or advances. Irwzn v TRIliar, 110 U. S.
499, 510.
But the facts of this case do not bring the transactions in
question within the operation of That principle, for the
evidence set out in the bill of exceptions fails to show that
either party to the transactions intended the same as wagering or gambling speculations. On the contrary, the undisputed testimony establishes that the sales were not wagers,
but that the cotton was to be actually delivered at the tune
agreed upon. Bibb's own statement of the transactions does
not disclose the fact that they were intended, even on his
part, as gambling or wagering speculations. He certainly
never disclosed to the plaintiffs, as his brokers, either in their
correspondence or in their verbal commuications, that he did
not intend to deliver the cotton sold through them for future
delivery In addition to this, it is shown that the rules and
regulations.of the New York Cotton Exchange recognized no
contracts except for the sale and purchase of cotton to be
actually delivered. These rules and regulations impose upon
the seller the obligation to deliver the cotton sold, and upon
the purchaser the obligation to receive it, except in certain
specified cases, which have no application to the present
case.
These rules, which were authorized to be made by the
statute of the State of New York, under wlnch the Exchange
was incorporated, enter into and form part of the contracts of
sale in this case. The defendants in one of their earliest
communications to the plaintiffs informed them that they
would use in their telegraphic correspondence what was
known as Shepperson's code, which provided that "unless
otherwise stated as agreed, it is distinctly understood that all
orders sent by this chapter are to be subject in every respect
to the by-laws and rules of the market where executed;" and
further, that "with every telegram sent by this table the
following sentence will be read as a part of the message, viz.,
this sale has been made subject to all the by-laws and rules of

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

our cotton exchange m reference to contracts for the future
delivery of cotton."
It is well settled that contracts for the future delivery of
merchandise or tangible property are not void, whether such
property is m existence in the hands of the seller, or to be
subsequently acquired. 2 Kent's Com. 468, and authorities
cited in notes, Benjamin on Sales, Am. ed. §§ 81, 82. It
is further well settled that the burden of proof is upon the
party who seeks to impeach such transactions by showing
affirmatively their illegality Roundtree v Smsth, 108 U S.
269, Dykers v Townsend, 24 N. Y 57, Iwtn v. Williar,
110 U S. 499, 507, 508. In this latter case the trial court
charged the jury that "the burden of showing that the
parties were carrying on a wagering business, and were not
engaged m legitimate trade or speculation, rests upon the
defendant. On their face these transactions are legal, and
the law does not, in the absence of proof, presume that the
parties axe gambling. "A person may make a contract for
the sale of personal property for future delivery which he has
not got. Merchants and traders often do this. A contract
for the sale of personal property which the vendor does not
own or possess, but expects to obtain by purchase or otherwise, is binding if an actual transfer of property is contemplated. A transaction which on its face is legitimate cannot
be held void as a wagering contract by showing that one
party only so understood and meant it to be. The proof must
go further, and show that this understanding was mutualthat both parties so understood the transaction. If, however,
at the time of entering into a contract for a sale of personal
property for future delivery it be contemplated by both
parties that at the time fixed for delivery the purchaser shall
merely receive or pay the difference between the contract and
the market price, the transaction is a wager, and nothing
more.
It is not sufficient for the defendant to prove
that Irwin & Davis never understood that they were to
deliver wheat in fulfilment of the sales made for them by the
plaintiffs. The presumption is, that the plaintiffs expected
Irwin & Davis to execute their contracts, expected them to

BIBB v. ALLEN.
Opinion of the Court.

deliver the amount of grain sold, and before you can find that
the sales were gambling transactions and void, you must find
from the proof that the plaintiffs knew or had reason to
believe that Irwin & Davis contemplated nothing but a
wagering transaction, and acted for them accordingly If
the plaintiffs made sales of wheat for Irwin & Davis for future
delivery, understanding that these contracts would be filled
by the delivery of grain at the time agreed upon, Irwin &
Davis were liable to the plaintiffs, even though they meant to
gamble, and nothing more."
This court approved that charge as a correct statement of
the law upon the subject of what constitutes a wagering contract. It is directly in point here, for the evidence fails to
show not only that Bibb & Company intended it as a wagering contract, but it fails to show also that the plaintiffs so
understood it. The testimony establishes that the plaintiffs
did not, in fact, so understand it.
It further appears that in the memorandum, or "slip contracts" of sale actually made by the plaintiffs for the account
of Bibb & Company, the sales were described as made "subject to the rules and regulations of the New York Cotton
Exchange." Under these circumstances we are of opimon
that the testimony fails to establish that-the contracts in
question were wagering transactions, and therefore void.
The testnnony is so clear to the contrary that the court below,
under the settled rules of this court, was certainly justifiable
in not submitting that question to the jury, for if it had been
submitted, and the jury had found that the contracts were
wagers, it would have been the duty of the court to set
aside their verdict. There is no merit in this assignment of
error.
It is next urged, on behalf of the plaintiff in error, that the
contracts for the sale of the cotton were void under the statute of frauds of the State of New York, because there was no
sufficient note or memorandum in writing of the transactions
signed by the parties to be charged thereby We are of
opinion that this contention cannot be sustained under the
facts of the case.

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opunon of the Court.

After agreeing upon the terms in which the business should
be transacted, and the use of Shepperson's code of cipher,
B. S. Bibb & Company, on November 9, 10, and 11, 1886,
telegraphed orders to the plaintiffs to sell for them in the
aggregate 10,000 bales of cotton for January and February
delivery These despatches were sent according to the form
of Shepperson8 code, and directed the sales for delivery for
account of designated names such as "Albert," "Alfred,"
"Alexander," "Amanda," "Andrew," "Winston," etc., which
names were intended, and understood, to represent the firm
name of B. S. Bibb & Company Thus, under date of November 9, 1886, B. S. Bibb & Company telegraphed to plaintiffs "If bureau report is considered favorable to-morrow sell
for January delivery 1000 bales cotton account Albert. Sell
for February delivery 1000 bales account Alfred. Sell for
January delivery 1000 bales account Alexander. Sell for
January delivery 500 bales cotton account Andrew Act
promptly if favorable." So under date of November 10, 1886,
they telegraphed "If market opens as high or higher tomorrow sell for January delivery 1500 bales cotton account
Winston. Keep us thoroughly posted."
These despatches, as well as others of a similar character
of later dates, meant "sell for January or February delivery
the designated number of bales on account of B. S. Bibb &
Company," and had attached to them, by the express terms
of Shepperson's code, the understanding and agreement, already quoted, that the orders were to be subject in every
respect to the by-laws and rules of the Cotton Exchange of
New York, with the additional terms read into the telegrams,
and as a part thereof, the stipulation that the sales were to
be subject to said by-laws and rules in reference to the future
delivery of cotton.
The plaintiffs executed these orders promptly as they were
received. In the execution of the orders they made what are
called "slip contracts" in duplicate, one copy signed by the
purchaser being delivered to the plaintiffs, and the other,
signed by the plaintiffs as brokers, being given to the purchaser. There were nineteen sales of cotton to various per-

BIBB v. ALLEN.
Opmion of the Court.

sons named m these "slip contracts," which were in the
following form
"New York, Nov 10, 1886.
"'B10, ac. Albert.
10 " Alexander.
5 " Andrew
Seller,

-

-

Buyer, Zerega & White.
On contract, subject to rules and regulations
of New York Cotton Exchange.
Twenty-five hundred bales cotton.
Jan. 1 delivery
Price 8.99.
x Per Z. & White, seventy-five."
These contracts differed only in date, in the name of the
purchaser, m the quantity of cotton sold, and the price
thereof. As each sale was thus made, it was reported
promptly by the plaintiffs to the defendants, both by letter
and by telegram, giving price, and stating that the orders to
sell were executed. So that the defendants were kept accurately advised of each transaction made in pursuance of their
order.
In addition to the "slip contracts," in the form described
above, delivered by the plaintiffs to the purchasers of the
cotton sold, and received by them from the buyers of cotton,
the sales were entered upon the books of the plaintiffs in
conformity with such contracts. These "slip contracts" show
upon their face that the purchaser named therein bought
cotton, sold for account of the name adopted to represent
B. S. Bibb & Company, they gave the price, and the number
'of bales, and the time of delivery, they were in the form
prescribed by the rules and regulations of the Cotton Exchange, and constitute bought and sold notes, which, taken
together, as they should be, "onstitute a sufficient memorandum in writing of the contract between the brokers, or their
principal, and the purchasers of the cotton, to meet the re-

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

Peabody v Speyers, 56
N. Y 230, 236, 237, Newberry v Wall, 84 N. Y 576, 580,
Butler v Thompson, 92 U S. 412, Beckwith v. Talbot, 95
U S. 289, Bayne v Wiggns, 139 U. S. 210, Ryan v United
States, 136 U S. 68, 83.
In this latter case this court, speaking by Mr. Justice Harlan,
said "The principle is well established that a complete contract binding under the statute of frauds may be gathered
from letters, writings and telegrams between the parties relating to the subject matter of the contract, and so connected
with each other that they may be fairly said to constitute one
paper relating to the contract." So in Benjamin on Sales,
(Am. ed.-§ 296,) after a review of the authorities, both English and American, it is stated "The bought and sold notes,
when they correspond and state all of the terms of the bargain, are complete and sufficient evidence to satisfy the statute,
even though there be no entry in the broker's book, or, what
Goom v Aflalo, 6
is equivalent, only an unsigned entry"
B. &. 0. 117, Sievewrzght v Archibald, 17 Q. B. 104, 115,
Thompson v Gardiner, I C. P D. 777. Such, too, is the
rule in New York, as shown by the earlier cases of Peltherv
Collins, 3 Wend. 459, Damis v Shtelds, 26 Wend. 341.
The bought and sold notes in question in this case, called
"slip contracts," when read in the light of the rules and regulations of the Cotton Exchange, and considered m connection
with the letters and telegrams between the parties, constitute
a sufficient note or memorandum in writing of the transactions
to satisfy the requirements of the statute of frauds. It is no
valid objection to these "slip contracts," executed in duplicate,
that the sales purported to be made on account of "Albert,"
"Alfred," "Alexander," "Amanda," and "Winston," etc.,
which names were adopted by the defendants, and which represented them and their account. Parol evidence was clearly
competent to show that these fictitious names, which defendants had adopted, represented them as the parties for whose
account the sales were made. J
But aside from this, and independent of the question whether
the bought and sold notes, called the "slip contracts," consti-

quirements of the statute of frauds.

BIBB v. ALLEN.
Opinon of the Court.

tute a compliance with the statute of frauds, the contracts
were fully executed and the transactions closed before the
plaintiffs commenced the present suit. It is well settled.by
the authorities that the defence of the statute of frauds cannot
be set up against an executed contract. -Dodgev Crandall,
30 N. Y 294, 304, Brown v Farmers'Zoan and Trust Co.,
111 N. Y 266, 273, .3faddenv Floyd, 69 Alabama, 221, 225,
Gordon, Rankin & Co.1v Tweedy, 71 Alabama, 202, 214,
Huntley v Huntley, 114 U. S. 394-, 400, Browne on Stat. of
Frauds, § 116. This rule proceeds and rests upon the principle that there is "no rule of law which prevents a party from
performing a promise which could not be legally enforced, or
which will permit a party, morally but not legally bound to
do a certain act or thing, upon the act or thing being done,
to recall it to the prejudice of the promasee, on the plea that the
promise, while still executory, could not by reason of some
technical rule of law have been enforced by action." .Sewman v. .7ellis, 97 N. Y 285, 291.
We know of no principle on which the agent can be deprived of a right to his commissions and advances m the execution of his agency for a principal on the ground that he has
not avoided a contract which was not in strict conformity
with the statute of frauds, in the absence of any instruction or
instructions from the principal not to comply therewith. Contracts not in conformity with the statute are only voidable
and not illegal, and an agent may, therefore, execute such
voidable contracts without being chargeable with either fraud,
msconduct, or disregard of the principal's rights. If the statute of frauds was not complied with, in making the sale contracts in the present case, we do not see that the defendant
was in a position to take advantage thereof, or that such want
of compliance with the statute, after the contracts were executed, would constitute any defence to the action. The suit
was not brought on these contracts of sale, which the plaintiff in error claims were voidable under the New York statute
of frauds. It is an action by the agents against their principal to recover for work and labor performed, and money paid
out at the principal's instance and request, and in the settleVOL. cxmc-32

OCTOBER TERMI, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

ment of the principal's business, in which the agent had
authority to make disbursements for him. In the present
case the plaintiffs had, by their contract, rendered themselves
personally responsible for the losses which might, and did,
occur under the contracts of sale made for account of the
defendant, and as such agents they are entitled to recover
against their principal the full amount expended by them for
him in the transactions. If in closing out the contracts of
sale, profits had been realized on the transactions, whether by
reason of decline in the price of cotton, or by the purchases
"to cover" the cotton sold, the brokers would, upon wellsettled principles, have been liable to their principal for the
same. They could not have set up or interposed as a valid
defence to such liability that the contracts of sale out of
which the profits were realized were not enforceable under
the statute of frauds, or were voidable by the agents or the
purchaser with whom they contracted. Neither can the principal interpose such an objection as against the agent's right
to commission or to reimbursement for his outlays, after the
execution of contracts, merely voidable for want of writing.
Coward v Clanton, 79 Cal. 23, -llorrillv Colehour, 82 Ill.
618. It is a well-established principle, which pervades the
whole law of principal and agent, that the principal is bound
to indemnify the agent against the consequences of all acts
done by him in the execution of his agency, or in pursuance
of the authority conferred upon hin, when the actions or
transactions are not illegal. Speaking generally, the agent
has the right to be reimbursed for all his advances, expenses
and disbursements incurred in the course of the agency, made
on account of or for the benefit of his principal, when such
advances, expenses and disbursements are reasonable, and
have been properly incurred and paid without misconduct on
the part of the agent. If, in obeying the instructions or
orders of the principal, the agent does acts which he does not
know at the time to be illegal, the principal is bound to indemnify him, not only for expenses incurred, but also for
damages which he may be compelled to pay to third parties.
The exception to this rule is where the transaction for which

BIBB v. ALLEN.
Opinion of the Court.

the agent is employed is illegal, or contrary to good morals
and public policy Addison on Contracts, § 636, Story on
Agency, §§ 339, 340, and cases cited in notes. Thus m Beack
v Branch, 57 Ges. 362, where an agent had sold cotton for
account of another, and was obliged to refund the purchase
money to the purchaser on account of false packing by the
principal, he was allowed to recover the amount so paid from
the principal.
It is another general proposition, in respect to the relation
between principal and agent, that a request to undertake an
agency or employment, the proper execution of which does or
may involve the loss or expenditure of money on the part of the
agent, operates as an implied request on the part of the principal, not only to incur such expenditure, but also as a promise
to repay it. So that the employment of a broker to sell property for future delivery implies not only an undertaking to
indemnify the broker in respect to the execution of his agency,
but likewise implies a promise on the part of the principal to
repay or reimburse him for such losses or expenditures as
may become necessary, or may result from the performance
of his agency Bayley v Wilkmns, 7 0. B. 886, Smith v Zindo
5 0. B. N. S. 587. Where a special contract remains executory the plaintiff must sue upon it. When it has been fully
executed according to its terms and nothing remains to be
done but the payment of the price, he may sue upon the contract or in ndebitatus assumpsit and rely upon the common
counts. In either case the contract will determine the rights
of the parties. Dermott v Jones, 2 Wall. 1, 9. These general
principles have a direct application to the case under consideration upon the facts disclosed by the record.
The decision in _rwzv
v Williar, 110 U S. 499, cited by
plaintiff in error, is not in conflict with the views above expressed, nor does that decision properly apply to the facts
in this case. The judgment of the court below in that case
was reversed for error m the charge of the court upon the
point that the act of one partner in buying and selling grain
for future delivery was binding upon the other partner who
had not authorized, sanctioned or known of the transactions,

OCTOBER TERMI,

1892.

Opinion of the Court.

and for the further reason that the court permitted proof of
the custom of the Chicago Exchange, when there was no evidence that the defendant below had knowledge of it. In the
present case it is shown that the plaintiff in error had full
knowledge of the rules and regulations of the Neew York
Cotton Exchange, and of the course of business that had to
be and would be adopted by the defendants m error in executing his orders to sell. It is further shown by the testimony
that it was expressly understood and agreed m writing, under
date of November 3, 1886, between the parties, at the conimencement of these transactions that "if a call for margins
(which the plaintiff in error was to put up) is not responded
to promptly there is to be no carrying on our part, (Richard
I[. Allen & Co.,) but that the cotton is to be closed out at our
discretion." To which agreement the plaintiff m error assented. When the cotton advanced beyond the price at
which it was sold for delivery, the plaintiffs below, in pursuance of the terms of the contract with Bibb & Company,
called upon the latter to put up margins covering the advance
in price. This Bibb & Company failed to do, and the demand was repeated on several occasions. While they were in
default in putting up margins, Bibb & Company gave orders
to sell about 22,000 bales of cotton for future delivery These
orders R. I. Allen & Company declined to execute until
proper margins were put up on the past transactions, and on
the orders to sell, and so notified Bibb & Company That firm
continued in default in putting up margins, and a member of
the firm of R. I. Allen & Company, on December 29, 1886,
asked the defendant below for instructions about the contracts
made with his firm by the plaintiffs, but Bibb refused to give
any instructions, or to put up margins. He was then informed that the plaintiffs below would close out the contracts
they had made for Bibb & Company, to which he made no
objection or dissent, and in pursuance of this notice, R. H.
Allen & Company, on December 30, 1886, went into the market and bought cotton "to cover" that which they had sold
for account of B. S. Bibb & Company, and to make good their
contracts. This they were required to do, both by the terms

BIBB v. ALLEN.
Opinion of the Court.

of then contracts with the parties to whom the cotton had
been sold, and by the rules and regulations of the Exchange,
of which they were members. If they had failed "to cover,"
or to comply with such contracts, they would have been liable
to expulsion from the Exchange. The cotton which they
bought "to cover" these contracts was purchased at the
market price, and the difference between that price and the
price of 10,000 bales previously sold for Bibb & Company
amounted to $19.273.50, which, with the plaintiff's commissions of $750, constituted their claim against B. S. Bibb &
Company for the recovery of which the suit was brought.
Under these facts, which are uncontroverted, it is clear that
the rule laid down in Irwzn v. Wilhiar has no application to
this case.
In the case of Perm v Parker,126 Illinois, 201, 211, where
the transactions were similar to those in question here, it was
said by the Supreme Court of Illinois "Parker, as agent for
Pern, and acting under his orders, sold the corn for Pern,
and, under the rules of the board of trade and the custom of
the Chicago market, he was personally bound to the purchasers on these contracts of sale. Parker and Pern were
dealing with reference to such rules and such custom, with
which they were both perfectly familiar. The rules of the
board of trade provided, that on time contracts purchasers
should have the right to require of sellers ten per cent margins, based upon the contract price of the property bought,
and further security, from tine to tne, to the extent of any
advance in the market value above said price. The price of
corn had been rapidly advancing since the date of the sales.
Parker either had deposited margins upon the contracts, or
was liable to be called on for the ten per cent and the additional margins by the persons to whom he had sold the
corn. The evidence does not seem to disclose whether or not
the purchasers had either received or called for margins.
Even if they had not, yet there was an existing legal right in
them to call on Parker for margins, and a legal liability upon
the latter, within the next banking hour thereafter, to deposit
the margins called for, and also, within that tne, deposit

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

with the secretary of the board, or the parties calling for
such deposits, duplicate certificates of deposit, signed by the
treasurer of the board, or an authorized bank."
This brings us to the consideration of the last assignment of
error, viz., Whether under the pleadings and proofs a judgment was properly rendered against the defendant Bibb alone,
after a verdict had been given finding that Hopkins was not a
partner. On this question we entertain no doubt whatever.
The action was against the partnership carried on under the
name of B. S. Bibb & Company, the complaint alleging that
B. S. Bibb and Thomas H. Hopkins were the partners composing that firm. The proof showed, however, that Hopkins was
not a partner, but only a clerk, and that the business done in
the name of the firm of B. S. Bibb & Company was that of
B. S. Bibb alone. In support of this objection to the judgment against hin, counsel for Bibb rely upon the case of
Malker v _Mobile -larne Dock and -MutualIns. Co., 31 Ala-

bama, 529, 531. That was an action against three defendants
as the joint owners of a steamboat. They made no objection
to the complaint, but interposed a plea of the general issue.
On the trial the proof showed that but two of the defendants
were owners of the boat, and a verdict and judgment was
accordingly rendered against those two and in favor of the
other defendant. On a writ of error, the two defendants
against whom the judgment was rendered sought a reversal
on the ground that under the pleadings no judgment could be
rendered against only two of them, and that, inasmuch as
the proof disclosed a liability on the part of only two, when
the complaint was made against three, the action should have
been discontinued, but the Supreme Court ruled otherwise,
and held, as stated in the headnote or syllabus of the case, that
" where the complaint shows a substantial cause of action, and
no objection was interposed to it in the primary court, a misjoinder of causes of action is not available on error." It is
true that, in the opinion of the court in that case, reference is
made to § 2156 of the then code of the State, which allowed
plaintiff to recover against one or more defendants, and it was
stated that that section should not be so construed as to au-

BIEBB v. ALLEN.
Opinion of tha Court.

thorize a recovery upon a cause of action not embraced in
the pleadings, or which was inconsistent with the complaint,
but that authorized a judgment in favor of some of the
defendants where the proof did not show the absence of a
right to recover against the remaining defendants upon the
pleadings.
In the present case there is no variance because of the fact
that Hopkins was not a member of the firm against whom the
plaintiffs -below were seeking relief, especially when no objection was made to any misjoinder; and in the objection to
the entry of judgment upon the verdict, winch he interposed,
Bibb did not state any ground on which he rested the objection. But whatever may be said of the case of Walker v
-Mobile Dock Co., which was decided in 1858, sinceotbat time
new codes have been adopted, (1876 and 1886,) under the provisions of which, as construed by the later decisions of the
Supreme Court of Alabama, it admits of little or no question
that, in a suit, like the present, against an alleged partnership,
in respect to which the liability is both joint and several, the
failure to recover against one of the alleged partners cannot
defeat a right to recover against the other, who did business
alone in the firm name.
In the case of Clark v Jones, 87 Alabama, 474, 482, it was
said by the Supreme Court of the State "It is further objected, that proof of demand against a partnership, of which
defendant is a member, does not authorize a recovery on a
complaint which counts on an account stated between plaintiffs and defendant individually, and for goods sold to him
alone. This question should be regarded as res adjudicatain
this State. Under the statute, which declares I any one of the
associates, or his legal representative, may also be sued for the
obligation of all,' it has been uniformly held, that a partnership creditor may sue one of the members of the firm, for a
debt contracted in the partnership name, whether by account
or otherwise, and declare upon the demand as his individual
liability," citing Code of 1886, § 2605, Duramus v H~armson, 26 Alabama, 326, Hall v Cook, 69 Alabama, 87.
In Smstk v Straub, 41 Kansas, 7, 10, the Supreme Court of

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion rof the Court.

Kansas sustained a judgment m a case almost identical with
the present. That was a suit for the price of merchandise
against three persons as partners under the firm name of
D I. Ross & Company They denied the partnership on
oath, and on the trial of the case it was found as a fact that
there was no partnership, but that only one of the defendants
was the owner of the business, that one of the others was an
agent, and the other only a clerk in the store. It was contended that no judgment could be rendered in the action
against the one who purchased the goods and owned the
store, as it was brought against her only as a partner, but
the court ruled otherwise, and said "It may be true that,
under the common law practice, in a suit against a partnership firm,. no judgment could be rendered against an individual member of that firm, but our statute provides that all
contracts shall be construed to be joint and several, and it
also provides that in all cases of joint obligations and joint
assumptions of copartners or others, suits may be brought or
prosecuted against any one or more who are so liable. This
action was instituted under the theory that there was a partnership, the plaintiff in error filed her answer, under oath,
denying the partnership, and if the proof fixed liability on
any one of the parties, a judgment could be rendered against
such party individually"
In Rutenberg v .Man, 47 California, 213, it was held, in an
action against several partners where the complaint averred a
joint contract made by all the defendants, and the answer
denied the contract but did not set up a misjomder of parties
defendant, that the plaintiff should not fail as against all of
the defendants, but should have judgment against those who
the proof showed had joined in the contract, while the others
should have judgment in their favor. Gillam v Sigman, 29
California, 637, Gruhn v Stanley, 92 California, 86, Pomeroy
on Remedies and Remedial Rights, §§ 433, 434.
At common law the objection for misjoinder should be
made by answer or plea in a way so as to give the plaintiff a
better writ, but at common law where two or more parties
are sued as partners, and there is no denial of the partnership.

