OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Syllabus.

were not, while in the piece, fairly to be denominated "trimmings." Take other piece goods, bolts of linen or cotton cloth,
suppose that some of them were used mainly, or even exclusively, for cutting up into handkerchiefs, napkins, or towelswould any one suppose that the terms handkerchiefs, napkins
or towels when used with statutory precision, were intended
Were
to include or did include the cloth imported in bolts
for
material
or
etc.,
handkerchiefs,
for
cloth
the language
include
would
expressions
such
doubtless
etc.,
handkerchiefs,
the cloth in bolts. So here, if the statute named cloth or
material for trimmings, the conclusion would be different,
but where the word is simply "trimmings," I take it to mean
that which at the time of importation and in the condition
in which it is imported is ready for immediate use as trimmings, and not that which is to be cut up into trimmings. Or,
to carry the illustration farther, could hickory logs be called
"wooden toothpicks," because when cut up into little pieces
they may be used as such, or would ivory fall under the
designation of piano keys, because when sawed into proper
shape it is used for that purpose 2
Indeed to my mind the word " trimmings" carries necessarily this idea something in size, formor condition fit and
ready for present use in the making or ornamentation of hats,
bonnets, or other such articles.
For these reasons I cannot concur in the decision in the latter case.

I am authorized to say that

MR.JUSTICE

BRowN concurs in

this opinion.

IDE v. BALL ENGINE COMPANY
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT
THE NORTHERN
No. 227.

OF

THE UNITED

STATES

FOR

DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.

Argued Aprii 21, 1893.-Decided

May 1O,1893.

Letters patent No. 301,720, issued July 8, 1884, to Albert L. Ide for new
and useful improvements in steam-engine governors are void for want
of novelty m the invention claimed in the specification.

IDE v. BALL ENGINE COMPANY.
Statement of the Case.

THis was a bill in equity for the infringement of letters
patent No. 301,720, issued July 8, 1881, to the plaintiff Ide,
for a steam-engine governor. Another patent, No. 308,498,
issued to the same party, November 25, 1884, was originally
embraced in the bill, but upon the trial in the court below the
charge relative to this patent was not pressed, and the case
was rested wholly upon No. 301,720.
"This invention," said the patentee, in his specification, "relates to that class of steam-engine governors known as 'flywheel governors,' and has for its primary object to provide
means for holding the eccentric steadily in its proper poised
position, in opposition to the tendency of certain extraneous
forces which are calculated to disturb the movements of the
valve as sought to be determined by the balanced forces of
weights and springs when the engine is in motion."
"To this end the invention consists in the combination of a
dash-pot with the governor and pulley, said dash-pot connected
with a fixed and a movable part, or with two relatively or unequally movable parts-as, for example, with the extremity
of a weight-lever and the pulley-hub. In this class of governors
the position of the eccentric is variably determined by the opposing and self-balancing forces exerted by the centripetallyacting spring or springs and the centrifugally-acting weight or
weights connected with said springs, the tendency being to
hold the eccentric permanently in a certain poised position for
a given speed of the wheel to which the governor is applied,
and to vary the position of the eccentric exactly as the speed
of said wheel is varied. There are, however, certain temporarily-acting causes of disturbance calculated to change the
position of the eccentric independently of the speed of the
wheel.
At a regular and very high speed of the governor wheel or pulley these disturbing forces operate but
slightly, owing to the momentum of the weights, which serve
to prevent their deflection from a regular course, but at lower
speeds than that at which the apparatus is adjusted to run,
and particularly in accelerating or retarding the engine, as in
starting up or slowing down, these incidental disturbing forces
interfere materially with the valve action and give an objec-

OCTOBER TERI, 1892.
Counsel for Appellees.

tionable irregularity to the movements of the weights. In
the case of an engine used for running a dynamo for electric
lighting purpose, and subject to sudden and wide changes in
requisitions of power and speed, the effects of the disturbances
referred to manifest themselves also in the quality or intensity
of the lights. A dash-pot constructed and attached to the
apparatus in such a manner as to prevent sudden movements
of the weight-levers or of the eccentric is found in practice to
wholly overcome the defects indicated and to give a desirable
steadiness and regularity to the movements of the movable
parts of the governor as well as accuracy and reliability to
the cut-off action of the valve."
After giving a description of the device by reference to the
drawings, the patentee added "The cylinder of the dash-pot
is filled with glycerine or some other non-compressible liquid,
preferably one that is also not congealable at a temperature to
which the engine is likely to be exposed. By means of the
dash-pot applied to the relatively movable and stationary
parts or to the unequally-moving parts, as described, wide and
sudden radial movements of the weights, E', are prevented, and
as a consequence the governor will have a steady and efficient
action at all speeds of the pulley or wheel to which said governor is applied.
The dash-pot, while preferably connected with the end of the lever E, may obviously be attached
to the eccentric itself, and to a fixed or less movable part of
the apparatus."
The single claim of the patent was as follows "In a flywheel governor, the combination with relatively-moving parts,
of a dash-pot, substantially as described."
The defendants set up in their answer the invalidity of the
patent by reason of prior use, and also non-infringement.
Upon a hearing in the court below upon pleadings and proofs
the bill was dismissed upon the ground of want of novelty,
39 Fed. Rep. 548, and plaintiff appealed to this court.
Mr&C. E. Ofleld for appellant.
_Mr C. Sturgeon and . r J C. Gallagher, (with whom
was 2£r J K. Iallock on the brief,) for appellees.

IDE v. BALL ENGINE COMPANY.

Opinion of the Court.
Mf. JUSTiCE BnowN, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.
The stress of this case is upon the novelty of the invention

covered by the patent of July 8, 1884, to the plaintiff Albert
L. Ide.
Both the plaintiff and defendant are manufacturers and
dealers in a particular type of steam engines known as
"electric-lighting-engines," and used for generating and controlling the electric-lighting circuits now in common use,
principally under the incandescent system.
The governors used upon these engines are not the old and
familiar fly-ball governors, but consist of weights, whose
centrifugal action is counterbalanced by centripetally-acting
springs, attached to the lever by which the weights are suspended, the object of which is to hold the eccentric constantly
in a fixed position for a given speed of the wheel, and to vary
the position of the eccentric exactly as the speed of the wheel
is vaied. This style of governor is enclosed either within the
fly-wheel or some other wheel Qonnected and revolving with
the shaft. It was found, however, that when the burden of
the engine was suddenly lifted by the extinguishment of a
large number of lights, there was a tendency on the part
of the governor to "race," as it is termed, causing an unsteadiness and irregularity in the speed of the engine, which in its
turn produced an objectionable pulsation and variation in the
intensity of the lights. It was also found to operate destructively upon the carbon filaments of which the illuminants
are composed. For the purpose of obviating this difficulty,
and producing a perfectly isochronous movement of the
engine under extreme changes of load, plaintiff attached to
the governor what is called a dash-pot, a device in common
use for easing the shutting of spring doors, and preventing
slamming. As used upon doors, it consists simply of a closed
cylinder filled with air, and a piston having a passage or leak
through or around it. When used in connection with the
governor of a steam engine, the cylinder is filled with glycerine
or other similar fluid. A dash-pot thus constructed and at-

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

tached to the apparatus in such manner as to prevent sudden
movement of the weight levers, or of the eccentric, is found in
practice to overcome the defect indicated, and to give a desirable steadiness and regularity to the movements of the
governor as well as accuracy to the cut-off action of the valve.
Mr. Ide was not, however, the first to discover the value of
a dash-pot in connection with the governor of a steam engine.
As eirly as 1880, the Buckeye Engine Company of Salem,
Ohio, one of the largest manufacturers of steam engines in
the country, constructed engines in which the governor consisted of a metal disk clamped upon the driving shaft, such
disk being about forty inches in diameter and weighing in the
neighborhood of 200 pounds. These disks were used simply
as a casing to enclose the governor, which was equipped with
arms arranged to swing by centrifugal force as the shaft
revolved, and kept from swinging too freely by springs acting
In this connection the superintendent of the
centripetally
Hartford Engineering Company testified that he had a case
of what is called the "racing" of a governor on a pair of
engines running in the Hartford Carpet Company, in Thompsonville, Connecticut. To use his own words "I took the
foreman of the engine shop with me to the factory and attempted to correct the trouble. We were unsuccessful. We
then determined to put on dash-pots filled with oil or similar
fluid, as the Buckeye people had done in similar cases. Within
a short time the dash-pots were made, sent to the Hartford
Carpet Co., and attached to the governor by their men. Mr.
Steele, the engineer-in-chief, came to the shop a few days later
and reported most excellent results from the application of the
This testimony was corroborated by that of
dash-pots."
Steele, the engineer, who swore the dash-pots were applied in
1881, had been constantly in use since, and had performed
their work satisfactorily
It also appeared that a similar dash-pot had been attached
to an engine run by the Hartford Manilla Company of
Burnside, Conn., and that the results there were equally
satisfactory There was also evidence of the employment of
Buckeye engines at the Pacific Elevator in Brooklyn, to the

IDE v. BALL ENGINE CONTANY.
Opinion of the Court.

governors of which was attached a dash-pot to prevent any
sudden, violent fluctuation of the governor. These governors
were located upon the opposite ends of the main shaft but not
in the fly-wheels. A similar dash-pot was attached to the
governor of a Buckeye engine at the Syracuse Iron Works.
None of these governors, however, were attached to the flywheels of the engine but upon a separate wheel mounted upon
the shaft and revolving with it.
There was some testimony that the Buckeye engines were
defective in their construction or operation, and that the
dash-pots were put into the governors to prevent the engines
from wrecking themselves, and to avoid suits for damages.
But however this may be, the testimony is uncontradicted
that the addition of the dash-pots had the desired effect of
steadying the action of the governor.
As the testimony, then, demonstrates that governors without dash-pots had been attached indiscriminately, not only to
the old fly-ball governor, but to the shaft governors, whether
connected with the fly-wheel or the pulley-wheel, or a separate
wheel of their own, connected with the shaft, and that
a governor with a dash-pot had also been attached to
a separate wheel revolving with the shaft, the invention of
Ide consists only in removing the governor, with the dash-pot,
from a separate wheel to the fly-wheel. If the dash-pot performed any new function when attached to a governor in the
fly-wheel, such change in location might be the basis of a
patent, but the testimony is that it was attached to the
Buckeye governors for the very purpose for which -r. Ide
attached it to his governor, and that it accomplished that purpose to the entire satisfaction of the parties interested.
It is true that plaintiff claims certain advantages from
locating his governor in the fly-wheel of the engine, which is
very much larger than the special wheel used for the governor
in the Buckeye engines, but these advantages seem to be
largely fanciful - such as existed before the dash-pot was
added, and, in any event, are not such as rise to the dignity
of invention. They were advantages which a governor placed
in a fly-wheel has over a governor placed in any other wheel,

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

but to which the addition of the dash-pot contributed nothing
new It is evident that plaintiff, in taking out his patent,
supposed that he had first discovered the advantage of attaching a dash-pot to the class of governors known as shaft or
shifting eccentric governors, and, when confronted with the
Buckeye governors, sought to limit his patent to a dash-pot
connected with a governor located in the fly-wheel, and to
discover some special advantage to be gained by locating it
there instead of in any other wheel revolving upon the
shaft.
The introduction of these governors seems to have resulted
in a large increase in plaintiff's business, and in the establishment of agencies in all the principal cities for selling engines
containing this improvement. While this may have been
occasioned by his introduction of the dash-pot, he has no right
to a monopoly of this feature, since he had been anticipated
in this particular by the Buckeye engines. The only novelty
he has any possible right to claim is in the application of this
style of governor, with the dash-pot, to an electric lighting
engine, which seems to have been the thing needed to obviate
the difficulty of a variable intensity of light and to secure the
requisite steadiness; but this is not what is claimed in the
patent. There can be no doubt that if the attachment of
a dash-pot to a shaft governor had been a novelty at the time
his patent was taken out, the Buckeye governors would have
been an infringement. This being so, it is equally clear that,
existing as they did before his patent, they are an anticipation.
The decree of the court below dismissing the bill is, therefore,
.Affirmed.

