OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.
JUtSTiE This is an appeal from a decree of the
Court
of the United States for the Northern District
Circuit
THE CfiEF

of California in a proceeding under the act of Congress of
February 25, 1885, entitled "An act to prevent unlawful
occupancy of the public lands," 23 Stat. 321, c. 149, whereby
appellant was directed to remove a fence and enclosure from
certain sections of land therein described, in default of which
it was decreed that the same should be destroyed by the
marshal for said district. The value of the fence was claimed
to exceed $5000, but the fence was not the matter in dispute,
nor was the appellant deprived thereof. For want of the
jurisdictional amount, Cameron v United States, 146 U S.
533, the appeal must be
D) srzssed.

UNITED STATES v. JONES.
EiROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
WESTERN DISTRICT OF LOUISIANA.
No. 262. Submitted April 24, 1893.-Decided May 1, 1893.

A bill of exceptions signed after the final adjournment of the court for the
term, without an order extending the time for its presentation, or the
consent of parties thereto, or a standing rule authorizing it to be done,

is improvidently allowed, and when the errors assigned arise upon the
bill, the judgment will be affirmed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Afr Asststant Attorney General Parker for plaintiffs in
error.

.Xr I' Alexander and _Mr H C. Blanckalrd for defendants
inerror
Judgment was rendered in this case
18,
the
writ
of
error
sued out and allowed July 23, and
July
the court adjourned for the term, July 30, 1889. So far as
THE CmEF JUSTICE

NASH v. HARSHMAN.
Statement of the Case.

disclosed by the record the bill of exceptions was not tendered
to the judge or signed by him until October 'T,1889, and no
order was entered extending the time for its presentation, nor
was there any consent of parties thereto, nor any standing
rule of court which authorized such approval. The bill of
exceptions was therefore improvidently allowed. 2liiler, v
.lders, 91 U. S. 249, Jones v Grover & Baker Sewing
Machine Co., 131 U. S. Appx. cl, .ichigan, Insurance Bank
v Eldred, 143 U S. 293. As the errors assigned arise upon
the bill of exceptions, we are compelled to affirm the judgment,
and it is so ordered.
.Afwmed.

NASH v. HARSHMAN.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF THE UNITED

STATES

FOR

THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF OHIO.
iWo. 957. Submitted April 17,1893.-Decided May 1,1893.

Tns case is dismissed upon the authority of Hohorst v. Hamburg-Amercan
-Packet Co., 148 U. S. 262.

THis action was commenced in the court of common pleas
of Logan County, Ohio, to foreclose a mortgage made by Nash
to Harshman of real estate then owned by him, and conveyed
by him to one Dupee after the execution of the mortgage.
Nash and Dupee were both made defendants. After issue
joined the cause was removed to the Circuit Court of the
United States on the defendants' motion, on the ground of
local prejudice. Trial was had there which resulfed in a
decree, December 4, 1890, against Nash for the payment of
the debt, and against Dupee for the sale of the land on failure
of Nash to make the payment within ten days from the decree.
On the 11th of December, Nash took an appeal to this court,
which was allowed, and a receiver was appointed to take possession of the estate and hold and manage it pending the
appeal. The appellee moved to dismiss the appeal or affirm
the judgment, assigning the following reasons therefor

