OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

HEDDEN v. RICHARD.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF THE

UNITED STATES FOR THE

SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 208.

Submitted April 24, 1893.-Decided May 10, 1893.

The language of commerce, when used in laws imposing duties on importations of goods, and particularly when employed in the denomination of
articles, must be construed according to the commercial understanding
of the terms employed.
This rule is equally applicable where a term is confined in its meaning not
merely to commerce but to a particular trade, and in such case, also, the
presumption is that the term was used in its trade signification.
In an action against a collector to recover an excess of duties paid under
protest, the defendant is entitled to show that words employed in a tariff
act have a special commercial meaning in the trade, and to have it
submitted to the jury whether the imported goods in question came
within them.

TE case is stated in the opinion.
.M>r Assstant Attorney General .2-faury for plaintiff in error.
.-

r Edwzn B. Smith for defendants in error.

MR. JUSTICE SHIRAS

delivered the opinion of the court.

At various times in the year 1886 the defendants in error
imported into the port of New York certain articles of furniture, for the account of Jacob and Josef Kohn, of Vienna,
Austria, the manufacturers and consignors thereof, which the
collector of the port classified as "furniture finished," under
the provision for "cabinet ware and house furniture, finished,"
contained in Schedule D of the tariff act of March 3, 1883,
and upon which he laid and collected duty at the rate of 35
per cent ad valorem. Against this classification and exaction
the importers duly protested, claiming that the furniture was
in piece and not finished, and therefore dutiable at 30 per cent

REDDEN v. RICHARD.
Opinion of the Court.

ad valorem, under the provision for ", house or cabinet furniture, in piece, or rough, and unfinished," and on March 23,
1887[, they brought an action in the Superior Court of the city
of New York, which was duly remanded by certsorarq into
the Circuit Court of the United States for the Southern
District of New York, against Edward L. Hedden, the collector, alleging that they had been compelled to pay him a certain amount in excess of the lawful duty on the goods, and
demanded judgment for the amount of such excess, with
interest. The defendant answered, asserting that the duty
collected by him as aforesaid was assessed at the lawful rate,
and the issue thus joined came for trial in the said court on
May 14, 1886, before the court and a jury
On the trial the plaintiffs in the action introduced testimony
tending to show that the furniture in question consisted of
Vienna bent wood chairs, settees, etc., which were imported
into this country in separate parts or pieces, but varnished or
polished, and requiring nothing but to be screwed together,
(the holes for screws or bolts being already-prepared,) and to
have the ends of the screws or bolts "touched up" with paint or
varnish, to form articles of furniture fit for use. The bolts
or screws used came over with the furniture, and all the parts
of the articles, as received by the importer, were ready to be
put together. A sample chair, in the condition in which it
was received by the importers, was brought into court by the
plaintiffs, and the manner of putting the parts together was
explained to the jury The plaintiffs also introduced the
testimony of a: liquidator of duties at the custom-house of New
York, to the effect that the difference between the amount of
duties exacted from the plaintiffs and the sum which would
have been collectible from them if the furniture had been
assessed at 30 per cent ad valorem amounted, with interest,
to $443.34.
The testimony on behalf of the defendant tended to show
that the articles of furniture described were first put together
at the factory in completed form, then varnished or polished,
and then taken apart and packed for shipment. The term
"finished," as applied to furniture, had, in the furniture trade,

OCTOBER TERII, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

on and prior to March 3, 1883, a particular trade meaning,
namely, that an article had been varnished, stained, oiled,
polished, or the like. The chair exhibited by the plaintiffs had
been "finished," and was what was known to the trade as a
"finished knocked down" chair. The terms "in piece" and
"rough" had no special meaning in the trade, different from
their general meaning, though the trade used the expression
Cin the rough" in the sense of "unfinished."
Upon the conclusion of the testimony the defendant's counsel moved the court (1) to direct the jury to find a verdict for
the defendant on the ground that the uncontradicted evidence
in the case and the exhibit showed that the furniture imported
was "furniture finished," within the meaning of the statute,
(2) that the jury be directed to find a verdict for the defendant
on the ground that the plaintiffs had not proven facts sufficient
to enable them to recover, and (3) to allow the case to go to
the jury on the question of whether the furniture imported
was "furniture finished," or "furniture in piece, or rough, and
not finished," within the meaning of the statute. These
motions having been successively made and denied, and exceptions to the denials duly taken, the court, on motion of the
plaintiff's counsel, directed the jury to render a verdict in
favor of the plaintiffs for the sum of $443.34. The jury then
found a verdict for the plaintiffs in the said amount, and judgment was entered October 7,1889, in accordance therewith.
The defendant thereupon sued out a writ of error.
The subject of contention presented by this record is simply
as to the proper construction of the statute. The collector
put in testimony to show that in the furniture trade the word
" finished" had a particular trade meaning, and the court
below refused to permit the application of such meaning, if it
should be found to exist, to the word as used in the act. The
question is, therefore, whether, if a term used in a tariff law
has a general meaning, as understood by society at large, and
also a special trade signification, it is to be presumed that
Congress used the word in its general sense, or in its trade
sense.
With regard to the language of commerce, the general rule

HEDDEN v. RICHARD.
Opinion of the Court.

laid down by this court is that it must be construed, when
used in laws imposing duties on importations of goods, and
particularly when employed in the denomination of articles,
according to the commercial understanding of the terms used.
United States v One Hundred and Twelve Casks of Sugar, 8
Pet. 277, Elliott v Swartwout, 10 Pet. 137. While it is true
that "language will be presumed to have the same meauing
in commerce that it has in ordinary use, unless the contrary
is shown," Swan v Arthur, 103 U. S. 597, 598, yet "the commercial designation of an article among traders and importers,
where such designation is clearly established, fixes its character
a specific designafor the purpose of the tariff laws;
tion eo nommne must prevail over general terms, and a commercial designation is the standard by which the dutiable
character of the article is fixed." Arthur v Lahey, 96 U S.
112, 113, 114. This rule is equally applicable where a term is
confined in its meaning, not merely to commerce, but to a
particular trade, and in such case also the presumption is that
the term was used in its trade signification.
While a customs law taxing an article which every one in
the community might be expected to import, such as "wearing apparel," may use words which every one understands,
and which, unless taken in the ordinary sense, would mislead
the whole community, and cannot, therefore, be supposed to
be intended in any other sense, unless there is something to
indicate such intention, yet, on the other hand, a tariff law
may use language not intended for the community at large,
but for merchants, or for a particular trade, and such as to
mislead those for whom it is intended, if not taken in the
commercial or trade sense, and such language is that under
consideration, speaking of a manufactured article in various
stages of its construction. In such a case, as in the other case,
the words are to be taken in the sense in which they will be
naturally understood by those to whom they are addressed.
We are of opinion that as the collector offered to prove that
the word in question had, at and prior to the passage of the
act of 1883, a particular trade meaning, the court should have
considered the trade meaning, if established, as applicable to

