REPUBLIC STEEL CORP. v. LABOR BOARD.
Syllabus.

tax was not laid upon the privilege of doing business during the period that the company was actially within the
State, the tax on that privilege being measured by the
premiums received during the life of the policies. Id., pp.
110, 111. The Supreme Court of Tennessee emphasized
the point of this distinction in its opinion on rehearing.
138 S. W. 2d 447. Compare State v. Insurance Company,
106 Tenn. 282, 333-335; 61 S. W. 75.
The appeal is dismissed for the want of a substantial
federal question.

Dismissed.
REPUBLIC STEEL CORPORATION V. NATIONAL

LABORRELATIONS BOARD

ET AL.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
THIRD CIRCUIT.

* No. 14. Argued October 17, 1940.-Decided November 12, 1940.
1. The National Labor Relations Board, having ordered the reinstatement with back pay of employees found to have been discharged or denied reinstatement in violation of the National Labor
Relations Act, and having directed the employer to deduct from
the back pay such amounts as were received by 'the employees from
governmental agencies for services performed meanwhile on work
relief projects, was without authority further to require the employer to pay over to the governmental agencies the amounts so
deducted. Pp. 9, 12.
2. The National Labor Relations Act is essentially remedial. The
provision of § 10 (c) authorizing the Board to order "such afffmative action, including reinstatement of employees with or without
back pay, as will effectuate the policies of this Act" is remedial,
not punitive. Affirmative action to' effectuate the policies'of this
Act is action to achieve the remedial objectives which the Act
sets forth. It is not enough to justify the Board's requirements
to say that they would have the effect of deterring persons from
violafing the Act. Pp. 10-11.
*The reasons assigned by the Board for the requirement in question-reasons which relate to the nature and purpose of worl

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.

8

Opinion of the Court.

311 U. S.

relief projects and to the practice and aims of the Work Projects
Administration-indicate that its order is not directed to the
appropriate effectuating of the policies of the National Labor
Relations Act, but to the effectuating of a distinct and broader
policy with respect to unemployment.
107 F. 2d 472, modified.

CERTIoRAiI, 310 U. S. 655, to review a decree enforcing
an order of the National Labor Relations Board. 9 N. L.
R. B. 219.
Messrs. Luther Day and Thomas F. Patton,with whom
Messrs. Joseph W. Henderson and Mortimor S. Gordon
were on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Thomas E. Harris, with whom Solicitor General
Biddle, Assistant Solicitor General Fahy, and Messrs.
Robert B. Watts, Laurence A. Knapp, Mortimer B. Wolf,
and MorrisP. Glushien were on the brief, for respondents.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE HUGHES delivered the opinion of

the Court.
The National Labor Relations Board, finding that the
Republic Steel Corporation had engaged in unfair labor
practices in violation of § 8(1), 8(2) and 8(3) of the
National Labor Relations Act, ordered the company to
desist- from these proctices, to withdraw recognition from
a labor organization found to be dominated by the company, and-to reinstate certain employees, with back pay,
found to have been discriminatorily discharged or denied
reinstatement. The Board, in providing for back pay,
directed tie.company to deduct from the payments to
the reinstated employees the amounts they had received
for work performed upon "work relief projects" and to
pty over such amounts to the appropriate governmental
agencies. Except for a modification, not now important,
the Circuit Court of Appeals directed enforcement of the
Board's order. 107 F. 2d 472.

REPUBLIC STEEL CORP. v. LABOR BOARD.

9

Opinion of the Court.

In view of conflict with decisions in National Labor
Relations Board v. Leviton Manufacturing Co., 111 F.
2d 619 (C. C. A. 2d) and National Labor Relations Board
v. Tovrea Packing Co., ill F. 2d 626 (C. C. A. 9th), we
granted certiorari limited to the question whether the
Board had authority to require the company to make the
described payments to the agencies of the Government.
310 U. S. 655.
The amounts earned by the employees before reinstatement were directed to be deducted from their back pay
manifestly because, having already been received, these
amounts were not needed to make the employees whole.
That principle would apply whether the employees had
earned the amounts in public or private employment.
Further, there is no question that the amounts paid
by the governmental agencies were for services actually
performed. Presumably these agencies, and through them
the public, received the benefit of services reasonably
worth the amounts paid. There is no finding to the
contrary.
The Board urges that the work relief program was
designed to meet the exigency of large-scale unemployment produced by the depression; that projects had
been selected, not with a single eye to costs or usefulness, but with a view to providing the greatest amount'
of employment in order to serve the needs of unemployed
workers in various communities; in short, that the Work
Projects Administration has been conducted as a meaps
of dealing with the relief problem. Hence it is con.tended that the Board could properly conclude that the
unfair labor practices of the company had occasioned
losses to the Government financing the work relief
projects.
The payments to the Federal, State, County, or other
governments concerned are thus conceived as being required for the purpose of redressing, not an injury to

10

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

311 U. S.

the employees, but an injury to the public,-an injury
thought to be' not the less sustained although here the
respective governments have received the benefit of the
services performed. So conceived, these required payments are in the nature of penalties imposed by law upon
the employer,-the Board acting as the legislative agency
in providing that sort of sanction by reason of public
interest. We need not pause to pursue the application
of this theory of the Board's power to a variety of circumstances where community interests might be asserted.
The question is,-Has Congress coAferred the power upon
the Board to impose such requirenients.
We think that the theory advancd-by the Board proceeds upon a misconceptionmof the National Labor Relations Act. The Act is essentially remedial. It does not
carry a penal program declaring ihe described utifair labor
practices to be crimes. The Act does not prescribe penalties or fines in vindication of pdblic rights 6r provide
indemnity against community losses as distinguished from
the protection and compensation of employees. Had
Congress been intent upon such a program, we cannot
doubt that Congress would have expressed its intent and
would itself have defined its retributive scheme.
The remedial purposes 6f the Act are quite clear; It
.is aimed, as the Act says (§ 1) at encouraging the practice and procedure of collective bargaining and at protecting the exercise by workers of full freedom of
association, of self organization and of negotiating the
terms and conditions of their, employment or other mutual aid or protection through their freely chosen representatives. This. right of the employees is safeguarded
through the authority conferred upon the Board to require 'the employer to desist from the unfair labor
practices described.and to leave the employees free to
organize and choose their representatives. They are thus
protected from coercion and interference in the formation

REPUBLIC STEEL CORP. v. LABOR BOARD.
7

11

Opinion of the Court.

of labor organizations and from. discriminatory discharge.
Whether the Act has been violated by the employerwhether there has. been an unfair labor practice--is. a
matter for the Board to determine upon evidence.
When it does so determine the Board can require the
employer to disestablish organizations created in violation of the Act; it can direct'the employer to bargain
with those who appear to-be-the chosen representatives
of the employees and it can require that-such employees
as have been discharged in violation of the Act be reinstated with back pay. All these measures relate to the
protection of the employees and the redress of their,
grievances, not to the redress of any supposed public
injury after the employees have been made secure in
-their right of collective bargaining and have been made.
whole.
As the sole basis for the claim of authority to go further
and to demand payments to governments, the Board relies on the language of § 10 (c) which provides that if
upon evidence the Board finds that the personi against
whom -the complaint is lodged has engaged in an unfair
.labor practice, the Board shall issue an order-"requiring
such person to cease and desist from such unfair labor
practice, and to take such affirmative action, including
reinstatement of employees with or without back pay; as
will effectuate the policies of this Act."
This language should.be construed in harmony with
the spirit and remedial purposes of the Act. We do not
think that Congress intended to vest in the Board a
virtually unlimited discretion to devise punitive measures, and thus to prescribe penalties or finejs which the
Board may think would effectuate the policies of the Act..
We have said that "this authority to order affirmative
action does -not go so far as. to confer a punitive jurisdiction enabling the Board to inflict, upon the employer any
penalty it may choose because he is engaged in unfair

12

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Op' ion of the Court.

311 U. S.

labor practices even though. the Board be of the opinion
that the policies of the Act might be effectuated by such
an order." We have said that the power to command
affirmative action is remedial, not punitive. Consolidated Edison Co. v. National Labor Relations Board, 305
U. S. 197, 235, 236. See, also, National Labor Relations
Board v. Pennsylvania Greyhound Lines, 303 U. S. 261,
267, 268. We adhere to that construction.
In that view, it is not enough to justify the Board's requirements to say that they would have the effect of
deterring persons from violating the Act. That argument proyes too much, for if such a deterrent effect is
sufficient to sustain an order of the Board, it would be
free to set up any system of penalties which it would
dcem adequate to that end.
We think that affirmative action to "effectuate the
policies of this Act" is action to achieve the remedial
objectives which the Act sets forth. Thus the employer
may be required not only to end his unfair labor practices; he may also be directed affirmatively to recognize
an organization which is found to be the duly chosen
bargaining-representative of his employees; he may be
ordered to cease particular methods of interference, in•timidation or coercion, to stop recognizing and to disestablish a particular labor organization which he dominates or supports, to restore and make whole employees
who have been discharged in violation of the Act, to give
appropriate notice of his compliance with the Board's
order, and otherwise to take such action as will assure to
his employees the rights which the statute undertakes to
safeguard. These are all remedial measures. To go
furth ef and to require the employer to pay to government, what they have paid to employees for services
,rendered- to them is an exaction neither to make the
employeqes whole nor to assure that they can bargain col.lctively with the employer through representatives of

REPUBLIC STEEL CORP. v. LABOR BOARD.
7

Opinion of BLAcK and

13

DOuGLAS, JJ.

their own choice. We find no warrant in the policies of
the Act for such an exaction.
In truth, the reasons assigned by the Board for the requirement in question-reasons which relate to the nature and purpose of worlk relief projects and to the practice and aims of the Work Projects Administrationindicate that its order is not directed to the appropriate
effectuating of the policies of the National Labor Relations Act, but to the effectuating of a distinct and
broader policy with respect to unemployment., The Board
has made its requirement in an apparent effort to provide
adjustments between private employment and public
work relief, and to carry out supposed policies in relation
to the latter. That is not the function of the Board. It
.has not been assigned a r6le in relation to losses conceived to have been sustained by communities or governments in connection with work relief projects. The
function of the Board in this case was to assure to petitioner's employees the right of collective bargaining
through their representatives without interference b r
petitioner and to make good to the employees what they
had lost through the discriminatory discharge.
We hold that the additional provision requiring the
payments to governmental agencies was beyond the
Board's authority, and to that extent the decree below
enforcing the Board's order is modified and the cause is
remanded with direction to enter a decree enforcing the
Board's order with that provision eliminated.
It is so ordered.
MR. JusTIcE ROBERTS took no part in the consideration

and decision of this case.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK and MR. JUSTICE DouGI m:
It might fairly be implied by 1the words "reinstate-\
ment of employees. with or without back pay" that thp-

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of

BLAcK

and

DOUGLAS,

JJ.

311 U. S.

,employees must themselves be the recipients of the back
pay. Were the opinion based on that ground we would
acquiesce. But the judgment here does not rest upon
such an interpretation. The holding appears to be on the
broad ground that the Board may not require full back
pay, even to a wrongfully discharged employee, if he has
received pay for services performed on a governmental
relief project provided exclusively for the needy unemployed. With this conclusion we cannot agree.
The statute commands that the Board must order
"back pay" if the policy of the Act will thereby be
effectuated. At least two persons are immediately involved in "back pay," as here used; one who pays and
one who receives. The propriety of a "back pay" order
as an instrumentality for effectuating the Act's policies,
must therefore be determined by the manner in which
it influences the payor and payee, one, or both. The
central policy of the Act is protection to employees from
employer interference, intimidation and coercion in relation to unionization and collective bargaining. We cannot doubt but that a back pay order as applied to the
employer will effectually aid in safeguarding these rights.
We believe, as did the Board and the court below, that
it may well be said that the policies of the Act will be
effectuated by denying to an offending employer the
opportunity of shifting to government relief'agencies
the burden of supporting his wrongfully discharged employees. The knowledge that he may be called upon to'
pay out the wages his employees would have earned but
for their wrongful discharge, regardless of any assistance
government may have rendered them during their unemployment, might well be a factor in inducing an employer
to comply with the Act.
And the construction of the provision for back pay is
not helped by labeling the Act's purpose or the Board's
action as either "punitive" or "remedial." The 'back

FLEISHER CO. v. UNITED STATES.
7

15

Statement of the Case.

pay" provision is clear and unambiguous. Hence, it is
enough here for us to determine what Congress meant
from what it said.
Nor is there substance to the expressed fear that complete acceptance of the words as Congress wrote them
would vest unlimited discretion in the Board, because it
would not. That discretion is narrowly limited, by the
fact that as to "back pay" the Board can in no instance
award any greater sum than "back pay" for the eriod
in which the employee was absent from his employer's
services by reason of his employer's violation of the law.
FLEISHER ENGINEERING & CONSTRUCTION CO.
ET AL..,V. UNITED STATES FOR THE USE AND BENEFIT

OF HALLENBECK.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.
No. 15. Argued October 17, 18, 1940.-Decided Noveinber 12, 1940.
1. The Miller Act of 1935, requiring contractors for public work of
the United States to furnish a payment bond for the protection
of persons supplying labor or materials, provides that a supplier
having contractual relationship not with the contractor furnishing
such bond but with a subcontractor, "shall have a right of action
upon the said payment bond upon giving written notice to said
contractor . . ." The Act further provides that "such notice
shall be served by mailing the same by registered mail . ... " Held
that a suit under the Act was maintainable although the notice
was sent 6 y ordinary mail and not by registered mail, where it was
otherwise sufficient and actually reached one of two 2oint and several contractors. P. 17.
2. With respect to the manner of giving the prescribed notice, the
Act should be liberally construed in aid of its remedial purpose.
P. 18.
107 F. 2d 925, affirmed.

CERTIORARI, 309 U. S. 693, -toreview the affirmance of a
judgment on a bond given Dy two contractors,, with sure-

