464

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Syllabus

311 U. S.

of that citizenship arise out of the relationship to the
state which domicile creates. That relationship is not
dissolved by mere absence from the state. The attendant
duties, like the rights and privileges incident to domicile,
are not dependent on continuous presence in the state.
One such incident of domicile is amenability to suit
within the state even during sojourns without the state,
where the state has'provided and employed a reasonable
method for apprising such an absent party of the proceedings against him. See Restatement, Conflict of Laws,
§§ 47, 79; Dodd, Jurisdiction in Personal Actions, 23 Ill.
L. Rev. 427. Here such a reasonable method was so provided and so employed.
Reversed.
STONER v. NEW YORK LIFE INSURANCE CO.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.

No. 74. Argued November 13, 1940.-Decided December 23, 1940.
In suits against an insurer upon policies providing for payment of benefits and waiver of premiums in the event -of the insured's "total disability," an intermediate appellate court of Missouri had held that the
evidence for, the insured was sufficient to go to the jury. Subsequently, the insurer sued the insured in a federal court in that
State, for a declaratory judgment that it was no longer obliged to
pay disability benefits or to waive payment of premiums. In this
suit, the parties were the same as in the earlier suits in the state
courts, the issues were identical, and the evidence consisted of a
transcript of the evidence in one of the state court suits, supplemented only by additional items introduced by, and favorable to, the
insured. The suit was tried without a jury and judgment was for
the insured:'Held:
1. Reversal by the Circuit Court of Appeals, with direction to
enter a declaratory judgment for the insurer, was erroneous. P. 467.
.2. The decision of the Circuit Court of Appeals, determining in
effect that the evidence on the issue.of total disability required a find-

STONER v. NEW YORK LIFE INS. CO.

465

Opinion of the Court.

464

ing for the insurer, was inconsistent with the state law as announced
by the intermediate appellate court of the State; and the Circuit
Court of Appeals was bound to follow the state law as thus announced,
since there is no indication that it would not be followed in like case
by the intermediate appellate court of the State or by the state
supreme court. P. 468.
3. That in the earlier suits the burden was on the insured to prove
disability, while here the courts below assumed that the burden was
on the insurer to show that disability no longer existed, is immaterial.
P. 469.
4. '.The requisite jurisdictional amount was involved, for it was
exceeded by the sum of the benefit payments and the premiums in
controversy. P. 469.
.109 F. 2d 874, reversed.

CERTIORARI, post, p. 628, to review the reversal of a
judgment against the insurance company in a suit involving the question of its liability upon disability
provisions of contracts of life insurance.
Mr. Kendall B. Randolph submitted for petitioner.
Mr. William H. Becker, with whom Messrs. Paul M.
Peterson and Louis H. Cooke were on the brief, for
respondent.
MR. JUSTICE MURPHY delivered the opinion of the

Court.
Respondent insurance company brought this suit in
the federal district court for a declaratory judgment that
it was no longer obligated to make disability payments
to petitioner or to waive payment of premiums under the
total disability clauses of insurance policies issued to petitioner prior to 1931. The question is whether the Circuit Court of Appeals should have followed two decisions
of the Kansas City Court of Appeals in earlier suits
between the same parties.
In June, 1931, petitioner fell and seriously injured his
left ankle. The injury is pernIanent. For about two
276055°-41-

30

466

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

311 U. S.

years after the injury, respondent paid petitioner the total
disability benefits and waived premiums. In October,
1933, it notified him that it intended to cease benefit
payments and waiver of premiums because it no longer
considered him totally disabled.
In April, 1934, petitioner brought suit in a Missouri
state court for the disability payments allegedly due and
unpaid at that time. From a verdict and judgment for
respondent he appealed to the Kansas City Court of Appeals, an intermediate state appellate court. That court
held that petitioner's evidence was sufficient to take the
case to the jury and that the trial judge erred in giving
certain instructions. It reversed and remanded the case
for a new trial. 90 S. W. 2d 784. Respondent thereupon sought a writ of certiorari from the Missouri Supreme Court but was unsuccessful. In consequence, the
action is still pending but has not yet been retried.
In June, 1936, after remand of the first case, petitioner
instituted two more actions, also in Missouri state courts,
to recover disability benefits which allegedly had accrued
since commencement of the first suit. One action was
tried and this time petitioner secured verdict and judgment from which respondent appealed. The Kansas City
Court of Appeals again reversed because of error in the
instructions, although it held that petitioner's evidence
presented a case for the jury. It remanded the action
for a new trial. 232 Mo. App. 1048. 114 S. W. 2d 167.
Both of these actions also are pending trial.
At this juncture respondent, a New York corporation,
started the present suit against petitioner, a resident of
Missouri, in the District Court for the Western District
of Missouri. It sought a declaratory judgment that petitioner was not totally disabled within the meaning of
the disability clause, and hence, that respondent was not
liable for disability payments or waiver of premiums from
June, 1936, until the date of suit. To prove its case re-

STONER v. NEW YORK LIFE INS. CO. '467
404

Opinion of the Court.

spondent introduced the transcript of testimony taken
in the second of the earlier suits. Petitioner supplemented the transcript by a statement of respondent
against interest, a personal deposition, and the testimony
of another doctor. The trial, without a jury, resulted
in a judgment for petitioner, the district judge finding
that petitioner was totally disabled within the meaning
of the policies. The Circuit Court of Appeals reversed,
however, holding that the evidence established that petitioner was not totally disabled. It remanded with directions to enter a declaratory judgment as prayed by respondent. 109 F. 2d 874. We granted certiorari on October 14, 1940.
We are of opinion that the Circuit Court of Appeals
erred in failing to follow the two decisions of the Kansas
City Court of Appeals in earlier suits between the same
parties involving the same issues of law and fact.
We have recently held that in cases where jurisdiction
rests on diversity of citizenship, federal courts, under the
doctrine of Erie Railroad Co. v. Tompkins, 304 U. S.64,
must follow the decisions of inermediate state courts in
the absence of convincing evidence that the highest court
of the state would decide differently. West v. American
Telephone & Telegraph Co., ante, p. 223; Fidelity Union
Trust Co. v. Field, ante, p. 169; Six Companies of California v. Joint Highway District, ante, p. 180. In particular this is true where the intermediate state court has
determined the precise question in issue in an earlier suit
between the same parties, and the highest court of the
state has refused review. West v. American Telephone
& Telegraph Co., supra...
Twice the Kansas City Court of Appeals has had before
it appeals involving the same parties, insurance contracts,
and facts as are involved here. Stoner v. New York Life
In&. Co 90 S. W. 2d 784; Stoner v. New York Life Ins.
Co., 232Mo ,App. 1048; 114 S. W. 2d 167. Each time
respondent argued that, petitioner s evidence failed to

468

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

311 U. S.

present a submissible case. 90 S. W. 2d 784, 790; 232
Mo. App. 1048; 114 S. W. 2d 167, 168. Each time the
Kansas City Court of Appeals expressly stated that the
evidence as to total disability presented a question for
the jury. 90 S. W. 2d 784, 794, 797; 232 Mo. App. 1048;
114 S. W. 2d 167, 169. Moreover, in approving or disapproving certain instructions it marked out the limits
of the test the jury was to employ in determining the
existence or non-existence of total disability within the
meaning of the policies.
It is apparent, then, that the question of total disability, on the evidence before the court in those two
cases, is a question for the jury under instructions embodying the test the Kansas City Court of Appeals approved. Under the rule of the West, Six Companies,
and Field cases, supra, it was error for the Circuit Court
of Appeals to hold, in effect, that the evidence would
not support the finding of the trial judge that there was
total disability, unless convincing evidence indicated that
the Missouri Supreme Court would decide differently.
The present case is not different merely because there
are now in the record a statement against interest, a deposition of petitioner, and the testimony of a doctor which
were not in the record in the earlier cases. The three
items of evidence were introduced by petitioner and, if
anything, weaken respondent's case. Moreover, apart
from these three items, the evidence in the present case
consists of the transcript the Kansas City Court of Appeals had before it when it wrote the opinion in the second
appeal (232 Mo. App. 1048; 114 S. W. 2d 167).
Nor is there any indication that either the Kansas City
Court of Appeals or the Missouri Supreme Court would
decide this case differently. Certainly there is nothing
to suggest that the Kansas City Court of Appeals now
would conclude that the evidence is insufficient after it
has held that the same evidence presented a question for
the jury. And while the concept of total disability is
'*N

STONER v. NEW YORK LIFE INS. CO.
464

469

Opinion of the Court.

inseparable from the facts to which it is applied, Heald
v. Aetna Life Insurance Co., 340 Mo. 1143, 104 S. W. 2d
379, indicates that the Missouri Supreme Court likewise
would conclude that a finding of total disability here is
supported by the evidence. See also Foglesongv. Modern
Brotherhood, 121 Mo. App. 548; 97 S. W. 240; James v.
U. S. Casualty Co., 113 Mo. App. 622; 88 S. W. 125;
Bellows v. Travelers' Insurance Co., 203 S. W. 978, which
were approved in the Heald case.
Furthermore, the test for determining total disability
approved in the Heald case was employed in the first and
followed in the second of the appeals to which we have
referred. 90 S. W. 2d 784, 793, 795; 232 Mo. App. 1048;
114 S. W. 2d 167, 171, 172. It has been employed consistently since the Heald case was decided. Eden v.
Metropolitan Life Ins. Co., 138 S. W. 2d 745; Comfort v.
Travelers' Insurance Co., 131 S. W. 2d 734; Rogers v.
Metropolitan Life Ins. Co., 122 S. W. 2d 5; Wright v.
Metropolitan Life Ins. Co., 115 S. W. 2d 102. The same
test was used by the district judge in the present suit.
He applied it to the evidence which the Kansas City
Court of Appeals twice has said presented a question for
the jury; and, since the case was tried to the court, he
determined that the evidence established total disability.
We think it is immaterial that in the earlier suits the
burden was on petitioner to Orove total disability while
here the courts below assumed the burden is on respondent to show ,that total disability no longer exists.
We conclude that it was error to direct the entry of
a declaratory judgment for respondent. It was proper,
however, to deny petitioner's motion to dismiss for want
of the necessary amount in controversy since a judgment
in favor of respondent would determine petitioner's claim
to both benefit payments and waiver of premiums. The
judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals is reversed anid
that of the District Court is affirmed.
Reversed.

