454

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

311 U. S.

BEST & COMPANY,'INC. v. MAXWELL, COMMISSIONER OF REVENUE OF NORTH CAROLINA.
APPEAL FROM THE SUIPREME COURT OF NORTH CAROLINA.

No. 61. Argued November 22, 1940.-Decided December 23, 1940.
1. A state statute which levies an annual privilege tax of $250 ofI
every person or corporation, not a regular retail merchant in
the State, who displays samples in any hotel room or house rented
or occupied temporarily for the purpose of securing retail orders,
held invalid under the Federal Constitution as a discrimination
against interstate commerce. P. 456.
So held as applied to a nonresident merchant who took orders
in the State and shipped 4nterstate directly to customers;. and where
the only corresponding fixed-sum license tax exacted of "regular retail
merchants" was $1 per annum for the privilege of doing business.
2. The freedom of commerce which allows the -merchants of each
State a regional or national market for their goods may not be
fettered by legislation the actual effect of which is to discriminate
in favor of intrastate businesses. P. 457.
216 N. C. 114; 3 S.E. 2d 292, reversed.
APPEAL from a judgment reversing a judgment for the

plaintiff in a suit for refund of a license tax.

See also

217N. C. 134; 6 S.E. 2d893.
2kr. Lorenz Reich,4r.,with whon Mr. M. James Spitzer
was on the brief, for appellant.
Mr. I. M. Bailey, with whom Messrs. Harry McMullan,
Attorney General of North Carolina, T. W. Bruton, Assistant Attorney General, and W. C. Lassiter were on
the brief; for appellee.
MR. JUsTIcE REED

delivered the orinion of the Court.

Appellant, a. New York retail merchandise establishment, rented a display room in a North Carolina hotel
for several days during February, 1938, and took orders

BEST & CO. v. MAXWELL.
454

Opinion of the Court.

for goods corresponding to samples; it filled the orders
by shipping direct to the customers from New York City.
Before using the room appellant paid under protest the
tax required by chapter 127, § 121 (e), of the North.Carolina Laws of 1937, which levies an annual privilege tax of
$250 on every person or corporation, not a regular retail
merchant in the state, who displays samples in any hotel
room rented or occupied temporarily for the purpose of
securing retail orders.' Appellant not being a regular retail merchant of North Carolina admittedly comes within
the statute. Asserting, however, that the tax was unconstitutional, especially in view of the commerce clause, it
brought this suit for a refund and succeeded in the trial
court. The Supreme Court of North Carolina reversed
and then, being evenly divided on rehearing, allowed the
reversal to stand.' The prevailing opinion characterized
the tax as one on the commercial usQ of temporary quarters, which in its operation did not discriminate against
interstate commerce and therefore did not come into conflict with the commerce clause.
The commerce clause forbids discrimination, whether
forthright or ingenious.2 In each case it is our duty to
"(e) Every- person, firm, or corporation, not being a regular retail merchant in the State of North Carolina, who shall display
samples, goods, wares, or merchandise in any hotel room, or in afiy
'house rented or occupied temporarily, for the purpose of secu~ing
orders for the retail sale of such goods, wares, or merchandise so
displayed, shall apply for in advance and procure a State license from
the Commissioner of Revenue for the privilege of displaying such
samples, goods, wares, or merchandise, and shall pay an annual
privilege tax of two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00), which license
shall entitle such person, firm or corporation to .display such samples,
goods, wares, or merchandise in any county in this State."
2216 N. C. 114; 3 S.E. 2d 292; 217 N. C. 134; 6 S. E. 2d 893.
'Welton v. Missouri, 91 U. S. 275, 282-283; Guy v. Battimore,
100 U. S. 434; Webber v. Virginia, 103 U. S.344; Hale v. Bimco
Trading Co., 306 U. S. 375. In McGoldrick v: Berwind-White Co.,

456

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

311 U. S.

determine whether the statute under attack, whatever its
name may. be, will in its practical opekation work discriminltion against interstate commercd. This standard
we think condemns the tax at bar. Nominally the statute taxes all who are not regular retail merchants in North

Carolina, regardless of whether they are residents or nonresidents. We must assume, however, on this record that
those North Carolina residents competing with appellant
for the sale of similar merchandise will normally be regu-

lar retail merchants. The retail stores of the state are
the natural outlets for merchandise, not those who sell
only by sample. Some of these local shops may, like
appellant, rent temporary display rooms in sections of
North Carolina where they have no permanent store, but
even these escape the tax at bar because the location of
their central retail store somewhere within the state will
qualify them as "regular retail merchants in the State of.
North Carolina." The only corresponding fixed-sum license tax to which appellant's real competitors are subject
is a tax of $1 per annum for the privilege of doing business.' Nonresidents wishing to display their wares must
either establish themselves as regular North Carolina
retail merchants at prohibitive expense, or. else pay this
$250 tax that bears no relation to actual or probable sales
but must be paid in advance no mafter -how bmall the
sales turn •out-to be. Interstate commerce car, hardly
.survive in so hostile an atmosphere. A $250 investment
in advance, required of out-of-state retailers but not of
309 U. S. 33, we pointed out that the line of decisions following
Robbine v. Shelby County, 120 U. S. 489, read in their proper
historical setting, rested on the actual and potential discrimination
inherent in certain fixed-sum license taxes (pp. 55-57). There is
no occasion now to rexamine the particular tax st .tutes involved in

tose case.
'

North Carolina Laws'of 1937, c. 127, § 405.

MILLIKEN v. MEYER.
454

Syllabus.

their real local competitors, can operate only to discourage
and hinder the appearance of interstate commerce in the
North Carolina retail market. Extrastate merchants
would be compelled to turn over their North Carolina
trade to regular local merchants selling by sample. North'
Carolina regular retail merchants would benefit, but to
the same extent the commerce of the Nation would suffer
discrimination.
The freedom of commerce which allows the merchants
of.each state a regional or national market for their goods
is not to be fettered by legislation, the actual effect of
which is to discriminate in favor of intrastate businesses,
whatever may be the ostensible reach of the language.
Revwrsed.
MILLIKEN

ET AL.

v. MEYER, ADMINISTRATRIX.

CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF COLORADO.

No. 66. Argued December 13, 1940.-Decided December 23, 1940. .
1. Where its judgment is challenged in another State, the jurisdiction.
of a state court over the parties or the subject matter is 'open to
inquiry. P. 462.
2. If the judgment on its face appears to be a record of a court of
general jurisdiction, then jurisdiction over the parties and the subject
matter will be presumed, unless disproved by extrinsic evidenceor
by the*record itself. P. 462.
3. Where a judgment of a state court having jurisdiction of the parties
and the subject matter is challenged in another State, the full faith
and credit clause of the Federal Constitution precludes any inquiry
into the merits of the cause of action, the logic'or consistency of
the decision, or the validity of the legal principles on which the
judgment is based. P. 462.
4. A judgment in personam rendered in the State of his domicile against
a defendant 'who, pursuant to a statute of that State providing for
Cf. Bacardi Corporationv.. Domenech, ante, pp. 150, 156-157.

