180

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Statement of the Case.

311 U.S.

courts. It is inadmissible that there should be one rule
of state law for litigants in the state courts and another
rule for litigants who bring the same question before the
federal courts owing to the circumstance of diversity of
citizenship. In the absence of any contrary showing, the
rule of the Thatcher and Travers cases appears to be the
one which would be applied in litigation in the state
court, and whether believed to be sound or unsound, it
should have been followed by the Circuit 'Court of
Appeals.
The decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals is reversed
and that of the District Court is affirmed.
Reversed.
SIX COMPANIES OF CALIFORNIA m' AL. v. JOINT
HIGHWAY DISTRICT NO. 13 OF CATTFORNIA.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
.INTH CIRCUIT

No. 267. Argued November 13, 14, 1940.-Decided December 9,1940.

1. An announcement of state law by an intermediate state appellate
court, in the absence of a contrary ruling by the-highest state
court or of other convincing evidence that the state law is otherwise, should be followed by federal courts. P. 188.
2. An intermediate appellate court of California had ruled that,
in that State, a stipulation in a construction contract/for liquidated
damages in case of delay in completion was in,plicable after
abandonment of the work. This, apparently, had not been disapproved, and there was no convincing evidence that 'the law
of the State was otherwise. Held, that the ruling should Jhave
been followed by the federal courts in a case involving the same
questions, in California. P. 188.
110 F. 2d 620, reversed.
CERTIORARI, post, p. 631, to review the affirmance of a
judgment for damages awarded on a cross-complaini,
against a~building contractor for delay in completing

SIX COMPANIES v. HIGHWAY DIST.
.180
a building.
citizenship.

181

Argument for Petitioners.
Jurisdiction was based on diversity of

Mr. Paul S. Marrin, with whom Messrs. Max Thelen,
DeLancey C..Smith, and Jewel Alexander were on the
brief, for petitioners.
The Circuit Court of Appeals should have followed
the decision of the District Court of Appeal of California
in Sinnott v. Schumacher, 45 Cal. App. 46.
The question involved is: What is the law of California? Under the reasoning of the Erie Railroad Co.
case, 304 U. S. 64, it makes little difference what state
court has declared the law so long as it is the rule of
decision in the, State. In the Erie case this Court referred to the law of the State as declared by its highest
court in a decision, but it'did not say that the law of the
State might not be established by the decision of an
intermediate appellate court. And where the decision of
such court does in fact announce a rule of law which
other state courts are bound to follow, it establishes the
law of the State even though another court of the State
has the power to overrule its decision.
. Had this case been tried in any superior (trial) court
of California, such court would have been bound by Sinnott v. Schumacher, and the result would have been the
opposite of that announced by tlhe Circuit Court of
Appeals. If, therefore, the state law is to be determined
just as it would be in a case tried in the state courts, we
can not escape the conclusion that the decisions of the
California District Courts of Appeal are binding on the
federal courts.
The power of the Supreme Court of California to
overrule decisions of the District Courts of Appeal has
little bearing on the solution of the problem. The Supreme Court has the power to overrule its own decisions,
but its, prior decisions, as well as prior decisions of the

182

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.,
Argument for Petitioners.

311 U. S.

District Courts of Appeal, are the law of the State unless
and until overruled.
The decision of one District Court of Appeal in California binds the others, particularly when a petition for
hearing by the Supreme Court of the earlier case has
been denied. Skaggs v. Taylor, 77 Cal. App. 519; Clover
v. Jackson, 81 Cal. App. 55; Bridges v. Fisk, 53 Cal. App.
117,122; People v. Whitaker, 68 Cal. App. 7, 11; Masonic
Mines Assn. v. Superior Court, 136 Cal. App. 298, 300.
Distinguishing People v. Brunwin, 2 Cal. App. 2d 287.
Decisions of the District Courts of Appeal are of statewide scope and application. A rule of law announced in
owie district will be followed in all others and must be
followed by all trial courts.
The decision below perpetuates the evils condemned
in Erie Railroad Co. v. Tompkins, 304 U. S. 64. There,
are many propositions of state law in California which
have never been decided by its Supreme Court, but
which have been decided by a District Court of Appeal
on which the Supreme Court has denied a hearing.
These decisions of the District Courts of Appeal are
accepted as the law throughout the State and the rules
announced by them aie applied' in litigation, in its courts.
Many of the rules of law announced by the District
Courts of Appeal of the State have never been decided
by its Supreme Court and probably never will be, because, under the enlarged jurisdiction conferred upon
the District Courts of Appeal by the 1928 amendment
to Art. VI, § 4, of the California Constitution, most
appeals are taken directly to these courts, and it is unlikely that the Supreme Court would order any case in
which it believes the District Courts of Appeal have
properly applied the law to be transferred to it for hearing. We earnestly contend that the decisions of these
courts are the law of the State when there is no decisioi
of the Supreme Court which conflicts with them.. If the
federal courts refuse to follow them we may have, for

SIX COMPANIES v. HIGHWAY DIST.
180

183

Argument for Respondent.

long and indefinite periods of time, one rule in the federal courts and another in the state courts, a condition
substantially the same as that brought about by the rule
announced in Swift v. Tyson, 16 Pet. 1.
The jurisdiction of the District Courts of Appeal is
state-wide. They have jurisdiction of appeals from any
superior court in. the State and their jurisdiction is not
limited to hearing appeals from superior courts in their
own districts.
The questionof the power of the federal courts to disregard decisions of lower state courts was not involved in
Wichita Royalty Co. v. City National Bank, 306 U. S.
103.
Messrs. Archibald B. Tinning and Theodore P. Wittschen for respondent.
Denial by the State Supreme Court of a petition for
hearing therein after decision by a District Court of Appeal does not mean approval of the opinion and decision
of the lower court. People v. Davis, 147 Cal. 346, 350;
Bohn v. Bohn, 164 Cal. 532, 537; In re Stevens, 197 Cal.
408, 423; People v. Rabe, 202 Cal. 409, 418; Seney v.
Pickwick Stages, 206 Cal. 389, 391; Shelton v. Los Angeles, 206 Cal. 544, 550; Western Lithograph Co. v. State
Board of Equalization, 11 Cal. 2d 156, 167.
The California District Courts of Appeal have held,
and the California Supreme Court recognizes, that the
decision of a District Court of Appeal in one district is
not binding on another. Danley v. Superior Court, 64
Cal. App. 594, 599; McMillan.v. Greer, 85 Cal. App. 558,
563; Stone v. San Francisco,27 Cal. App. 2d 34; Paynor
v. City of Arcata, 11 Cal. 2d 113, 120.
That being so, then clearly neither the Circuit Court of
Appeals nor this Court is so bound.
The California District Courts of Appeal are courts of
limited and not state-wide jurisdiction. But even if
jurisdiction were state-wide, in view of the express limita-

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

311 U.S.

tions which have been placed upon their decisions by the
Supreme Court of the State, their decisions, even when
the: Supreme Court refuses a hearing, are not those of
the highest court of the State, which the federal courts
are required to follow.
MR. CHIEF JUSTIcE HUGHES delivered the opinion of

the Court.
Six Companies of California, a contractor, brought this
suit against respondent, Joint Highway District No. 13,.
to recover the reasonable value of materials and labor
furnished under a contract. The contractor had under-.
taken to rescind for alleged breach by respondent and had
stopped work. Respondent answered, alleging wrongful
abandonment of the contract and by cross-complaint
sought damages against the contractor and its sureties.
There was a clause in the contract for liquidated damages in the amount of $500 a day in case of delay in
completion.' The District Court found against the con1

That clause provided:

"(d) Damages for Delay.-The Parties hereto expressly stipulate
and agree that time is the essence of this contract. In case the Work
is not completed within the time specified in the contract or within
such
extensions of the contract time as may be allowed as herein
provided,

it is distinctly understood and agreed that the Contractor
shall pay the District as agreed and liquidated damages and not as
a penalty five hundred dollars ($500.00) for each and every working
day which may elapse between the limiting date as herein provided
-and the date of actual completion of the work, said sum being specifically agreed upon as a measure of damage to the District by
reason of delay in the completion of the work; it being expressly
stipulated and agreed that it Would be impracticable to estimate and
ascertain the actual damages sustained by the District under such
circumstances; and the Contractor agrees and consents that the
amount of such liquidated damages so fixed, shall be deducted and
iretained by the Diktrict from any money then due, or thereafter t6
become due, he Contractor."

SIX COMPANIES v. HIGHWAY DIST.
180

185

Opinion of the Court.

tractor and its sureties and on the cross-complaint
awarded damages which included $142,000 as liquidated
damages for .delay. The Circuit Court of Appeals
affirmed the judgment. 110 F. 2d 620.
Petitioners contended that under the law of California
the clause providifig for liquidated _damages did not
apply to delay which occurred after the abandonment of
the work by the contractor. This contention was overruled. The Circuit Court of Appeals expressly recognized that its decision in that respect was contrary to the
decision of the District Court of Appeal in California in
the case of Sinnott v. Schumacher, 45 Cal. App. 46; 187
P. 105. But the Circuit Court of Appeals thought that
decision wrong and refused to follow it. We granted
certiorari limited to the question whether there was error
in that ruling. October 14, 1940.
In Sinnott v. Schumacher, supra, the suit was brought
to recover the value of labor and materials furnished
under a building contract.. After part performance the
contractor gave notice of rescission and abandoned
work because of failure to receive the first installment of
the agreed payment. Defendants denied that the installment was due and filed a cross-complaint against the
contractor and his surety asking damages becaise of the
abandonment of the work. The trial court found against
the plaintiff on his complaint and in favor of the defendants on their cross-complaint, and entered judgment for
damages. The District Court of Appeal affirm-ned the
judgment. The Supreme Couirt of the State denied a
petition for hearing in that court.
Odl the appeal to the District Court of Appeal, the
plaintiff-appellant contended that the trial court erred
as to the amount of the damages awarded, basing his contention upon the clause in the contract which provided
for liquidated damages in a stipulated amount per day

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

in case of delay in completion 2

311 U. S.

The District Court of

Appeal held that the clause had no application to a case
.where the contract had been abandoned without sufficient
cause. The court said:

"As to the appellants' contention that the court 7as
in error in its finding and conclusion as to the amount of
damages sustained by the defendants and cross-complainants by reason of the plaintiff's unjustified abandonment
of work upon said building, and his failure, neglect, and
refusal to complete the same, it may be stated that this
contention is based upon the clause in the contract which
relates to the matter of delay in the time of completion

of said building and which purports to fix a penalty of
The clause for liquidated damages in the contract in the Sinnott
case was as follows:
."Should the Contractor fail to complete this contract and the work
provided for within the time set for completion al aforesaid, due
allowance being made for the contingencies provided: for herein, he
shall then become liable to the Owner for all loss and damages which
the Owner may suffer on account thereof, in the sum of Ten Dollars
per day, which the Contractor hereby agrees to deduct from his
contract price, for each day that the work shall remain unfinished be•yond such time for completion, and the Owner agrees. to pay to the
Contractor a bonus of Ten Dollars ($10) for each day that the work
may be completed before the time aforesaid for the completion.
"The agreement in this paragraph made for damages is made as
herein set forth for the reason that the actual damage which will be
sustained by the Owner by reason of the Contractor's breach of the
covenant to complete this contract within the time stated is from
the nature of the case impractical and extremely difficult to fix;
and one of the considerations moving the Owner to enter into this
contract with the Contractor is the agreement of the Contractor to
complete his said contract within the time herein stated and the
liquidated damages herein above stated for his failure to do so."
The plaintiff's contention under this clause was that the delay in
completion was not more than five days the damage for which under
the contract would amount to $50.

SIX COMPANIES v. HIGHWAY DIST.
180

187

Opinion of the Court.

fifty dollars per day for such delay; but this provision of
the contract has no application to a condition wherein the.
contractor is shown to have abandoned his contract without sufficient cause, in which case the right of the defendants to damages as a result of the plaintiff's breach of
said contract could not be affected or limited by said provision of the contract for a penalty for delay in the competion of the structure beyond the stipulated time for
such'completion."
Respondent urges that what was said by the District
Court of Appeal in the Sinnott case with respect to the
liquidated damage clause was a mere dictum. We do not
so regard it. This part of the opinion: of the court was
its answer to the' appellants' insistence that the judgment
on appeal was erroneous because the liquidated damage
clause had been disregarded and damages had been
awarded in excess of the amount for which the contract
provided. What the court said as to this was a statement
of the ground of its decision. It was a statement of the
law of California as applied to-the facts before the court.
It is said that there is a difference between the two cases.
That difference appears to be that in the instant case
the owner is seeking to apply the liquidated damage
clause in order to recover from the contractor, while in the
Sinnott case the contractor was seeking to limit the damage recoverable against him to the amount agreed upon.
But, so far as the question concerns the applicability of
the liquidated damage clause, the difference would not
seem to be material, as by the terms of the clause in each
case it appears to be intended to bind both parties when
,applicable. - The ruling as to the law of California a.
'Compare BacigalUpi v. Phoenix Building Co., 14 Cal. App. 632,
639; 112 P. 892. See Williston on Contracts, Rev. Ed., Vol. 3,
§ 785, pp. 2210, 2211.

188

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

311 U.S.

applied by the state court was that the stipulation in the
contract as to the amount of damages in case of delay
in completion was not applicable to delay after the contractor had abandoned the work. As the Circuit Court
of Appeals said, that decision "is adverse to ours."
The decision in the Sinnott case was made in 1919. We
have not been referred to any decision of the Supreme
Court of California to the contrary. We thus have an
announcement of the state law by an intermediate appellate court in California in a ruling which apparently
has not been disapproved, and there is no convincing
evidence that the law of the State is otherwise. We have
fully discussed the principle involved in the cases of
West v. American Telephone & Telegraph Co., post, p. 223,
and Fidelity Union Trust Co. v. Field, ante, p. 169, and
further amplificatipn is unnecessary. See, also, Rindge
Co. vi Los Angeles, 262 U. S. 700, 708; Tipton v. Atchison,
T. & S. F. Ry. Co., 298 U. S. 141, 151. The Circuit Court
of Appeals should have followed the decision of the state
court in Sinnott v. Schumacher with respect to the inapplicability of the liquidated damage clause in the event of
the abandonment of work under the contract, and its'
judgment to the. contrary is reversed. -, The cause is re-

manded for further proceedings in conformity with this
.opinion.
Reversed.

