STEVENS CO. v. FOSTER & KLEISER CO' 255
243

Syllabus.

But that course would, in the circumstances, be neiiher
fair nor practical. As respects federal courts, the procedure perriited by the rule, is novel. The provision
which is involved in this case substantially follows the
first state statute to authorize- such procedure.8 The
Supreme Court of that State has construed 'the statute
to permit the trial judge to pass on the motion for judgment, leaving the motion for a new trial for later disposition. In the event that his decision is reversed, the
practice is to remand the cause with leave to the trial
It was
judge to pass upon the motion for a new trial.

therefore not unnatural for the defendant to advocate
that
or for the trial judge to follow it.
IIn course,
the circumstances,
we think the failure of the District Court to rule in the alternative oti both matters can
be cured without depriving -the defendant of opportunity
to have its motion for a new trial heard and decided by
the trial court, by modifying the judgment below to provide that the cause be remanded to the District Court
to hear and rule upon that motion.
Modified.
C. E. STEVENS COMPANY ET AL. v. FOSTER &
KLEISER CO. ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE

.CIRCUIT

COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE

NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 41.

Arued November 19, 20, 1940.-Decided December 9, 1940.

A complaint in a suit, for triple damages under the Sherman Antitrust Act, brought by a poster advertising company against others
engaged in that business, adequately alleged a conspiracy by the
defendants to monopolize the business of bill posting by restraining
interstate commerce in the transportation of 'posters. The corn.62 Mason's Minnesota Statutes (1927) § 9495.
"See the Minnesota cases cited in note 11.

256

OCTOBER TERM, 1940. °
Opinion of the Court.

311 U. S.

plaint alleged also, as part of the general conspiracy, local acts of
the defendants aimed at, preventing the complainant from obtaining sites for posting and signs. Injury and damage to the complainant, including loss of business and profits, were alleged.
Held:
1. The damage alleged could not be regarded as having been
the consequence solely of the local acts of the defendants; and the
allegations of damage, though general, were -adequate. P. 260.
2.\It was not necessary in order to state a cause of action that
the complainant -allege it was unable, as a result of defendants'
activities, to obtain posters. P. 261.
109 F. 2d 764, reversed.

CERTIORARI, 310 U. S. 618, to review the affirmance of

a judgment dismissing the complaint in a suit for triple,
damages under the Sherman Antitrust Act.
Mr. H. B. Jones, with whom Mr. Wheeler Grey was on
the brief, for petitioners.
Mr. Herbert W. Clark, with whom Messrs. J. Hart
Clinton and Stephen V. Carey were on the brief, for
respondents.
MR. JusTIcE 'ROBERTS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
In this case 'the petitioners filed a complaint 1 in the
District Court for Western Washington under § 7 of the
'The suit was brought by the C. E. Stevens Company and two
subsidiaries. The complaint is in three counts, the first setting forth
the claim of the parent company, and each of the others the claim
of one of the subsidiaries, against the respondents. Save as to the
locale of the plaintiffs' business, and the amount of damages. demanded, the counts are substantially alike. We shall refer to the
first count as the complaint. The District Court did not pass on
-the question of the propriety of the joinder of the several causes
of action, which was raised by the demurrer, and we express no
opinion upon it.

. STEVENS CO. v. FOSTER & KLEISER CO.

257

Opinion of the Court.

255

Sherman Act,2 for triple damages for alleged violation
by the respondents of §§ 1 and 2 of the Act.' The respondents demurred to the' amended Complaint for
failure to state a cause of action. The District Court
treated the demurrer as a motion to dismiss and dismissed the complaint. The Circuit Court of Appeals
affirmed the. judgment.'
The question presented is whether the complaint
alleges damage to the petitioners consequent upon a
conspiracy to create a monopoly in the business of bill
posting in the Pacific Coast region and to accomplish
that monopoly by restraining interstate commerce in
the transportation of posters.
The relevant allegations of the complaint may be
summarized.
The petitioner C. K Stevens Company is engaged in
the business of outdoor advertising, which is the business of procuring locations and erecting structures
thereon for the posting of bills and the painting of signs.
Its business is conducted in Washington and other
states. More specifically, the petitioner's activities are
the soliciting, entering into, and execution of contracts
for poster service for the display of posters, painted
bulletins, and wall displays. These contracts are secured
from advertisers, their representatives, and advertising
agencies located throughout the United States and constitute agreements whereby the parties are to ship
posters, lithographs, designs, stepcils, etc., interstate
with the purpose that the posters or lithographs shall be
placed upon billboards and the other material used for
painting signs on locations controlled by the bill posting
2

Act of Oct. 15, 1914, c. 323, § 4, 38 Stat. 731, 15 U. S. C. § 15.
'Act of July 2, 1890, c. 647, §§ 1 and 2, 26 Stat. 209; 15 U. S. C.
§§ 1 and 2.
109 F. 2d 764.
276055 -41-17

2-58

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

311 U.S.

company. Foster & Kleiser Co., one of the respondents,
is engaged in the same business in the Pacific Coast
states and elsewhere. The other respondents are connected with and controlled-by Foster & Kleiser Co. or its
subsidiary, Restop Realty Co., the latter being in the
business' of owning, holding, and leasing property for
outdoor advertising sites on the Pacific Coast.
The usual routine of the business is that the advertiser,
directly or through an agency, contracts with a lithographer for making posters. The advertiser, either personally or through an agency, contracts with a bill posting
company in the desired locality for the placing of the
posters. The advertiser then forwards the posters to the
bill poster or orders the lithographer to forward them.
Foster & Kleiser Co. is operating under' numerous contracts thus made.
Foster & Kleiser Co. formulated and entered into a
plan, scheme, and conspiracy with others for the purpose
of monopolizing all branches of the outdoor advertising
business in the Pacific Coast area and preventing petitioner and other independents, so-called, from engaging
in that business and securing and executing contracts
therefor and from securing posters for use therein. The
purpose of the conspirators was to prevent lithographers,
from supplying posters to independents, including petitioner, or to advertisers who were customers of petitioner
and to prevent independents from securing adequate sites
for the display of posters.
The bill asserts that there is an association of paint
plant I operators and poster plant operators, known as
"Outdoor Advertising Association of America, Inc.," of
which the owners of separate plants located in separate
cities are members. There is one membership for each
'A jllant is a group of sign locations owned or controlled by one
bill poster in one city or community.

STEVENS CO. v. FOSTER & KLEISER CO.
255

259

Opinion of the Court.

municipality. Voting rights are according to the number
of separate -plants owned and operated by each voting
member. Foster & Kleiser Co. has some six hundred
pla.s with concomitant voting rights. By virtue of its
voice in the management of the association, and pursuant to the conspiracy, it caused the association to threaten
to refuse, and to tefuse, to post lithographs if the manufacturers thereof sold or furnished them for posting by
independent plants or furnished samples of posters to
independent plants, with the aim and effect of coercing
and intimidating the lithographers so as to prevent and
hamper the petitioner and other competitors of the association's plants, and of the respondents, from securing
samples or lithographs. Actual obstruction and hindrance of the independents, including the petitioner, resulted. Pursuant to the conspiracy, the association and
the conspirators threatened to refuse, and have refused,
to post posters and lithographs for advertisers if they
patronized or made contracts with independent plants.
In addition, the conspirators refused to execute any portion of national contracts for outdoor advertising if any
part of the work had been executed, or was to be executed
by an independent plant. The movement in interstate
commerce of posters, lithographs, and designs for outdoor
advertising was thus attempted to be monopolized, was
monopolized, and was unreasonably restrained by the
respondents.
Other allegations are made with. respect to agreements
brought about by the Foster & Kleiser Co. and other bill
posting concerns to exclude the petitioner and other
independents from participation in the national business
of advertising. It is also alleged that the respondents
resorted to various other illegal and unfair acts and
means in the petitioner's'locality in an effort to prevent
petitioner from obtaining sites for posting lithographs

260,

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

311 U. S.

and displaying advertising signs, as part of the same
general conspiracy and for the same ultimate purpose.
We do not further set out these allegations because
enough has been said to indicate the question on which
the case turns.
The respondents conceded in the court below, and
here, that the complaint charges a conspiracy in restraint
of interstate commerce, within the purview of the Sherman Act, in view of the decision in Ramsay Co. v. Associated Bill Posters, 260 U. S. 501.
. The court below, however, agreed with the .respondents that the'complaint fails to allege that the conspiracy, so far as it affected interstate commerce, was
effective to injure petitioner, since there was no allegation that respondents' conduct prevented the petitioner
from obtaining or receiving any posters. It thought the
allegations of damage to petitioner's business were
directed to the local acts of the respondents rather than
to any restraint of interstate commerce in posters; and,
as purely local activities were the gravamen of the complaint, no violation of the Sherman Act was sufficiently
charged. This, upon the principle that local activities
pursued without intent to hinder or restrain interstate
commerce, although they indirectly affect it, cannot flow
from or sustain a finding of conspiracy to interfere with
or restrain such commerce,
The petitioner urges that the complaint charges a
general conspiracy to monopolize the bill posting business on the Pacific Coast and, as one of the means of
such monopoly, to restrain interstate commerce in
posters contributing to the resulting injury of the petitioner. It insists that the court below was wrong in construing the complaint as 'charging a monopoly of local
business not intended to affect interstate commerce.
We hold that the complaint alleges a conspiracy in
violation of §§ 1 and 2 of the Sherman Act. The object

STEVENS CO. v. FOSTER & KLEISER CO. 261
255

Opinion of the Court.

of it is to monopolize or to restrain trade in the bill posting business on the Pacific Coast, and in aid of that
purpose, to restrain interstate commerce in posters; and
the complaint sufficiently alleges that such monopoly
and restraint inflicted damage upon the petitioner.
As we have said, the complaint alleges that the petitioner solicits contracts for poster advertising as does
the respondent, Foster & Kleiser Co. The petitioner is
thus in competition with Foster & Kleiser Co. in the
effort to obtain contracts which call for the interstate
shipment of posters for their execution.' The complaint
ad..iuately charges a conspiracy to restrain the transpori&ation of posters in interstate commerce, in aid of the
attempted monopoly. It also charges other means and
acts, local in character, with the same aim. The conspiracy, with its effect on interstate commerce, is alleged
to have caused the petitioner great expense and loss of
profits; to have restrained and prevented petitioner from
establishing a busin6ss in San Francisco, "all to the great
injury and damage of plaintiff." The pleading further
alleges that the respondents' acts were injurious to the
petitioner, excluded petitioner from fair competition,
and charges that because of petitioner's inability to compete with respondents, petitioner "has been damaged in
that its business was rendered unprofitable, and the profits of its said trade and commerce have diminished, and
the plaintiff company has suffered loss and been damaged
thereby."
While these allegations are 'general, we cannot say
That they are inadequate nor are we able to agree with
the court below that they are coupled with and treated
solely as the consequence of local activities of the
respondents.
We think that, in order to state a cause of action, the
petitioner was not bound to aver that it had been wholly
unable to obtain posters.

262-

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

311 U. S.

The judgment is reversed and the cause is remanded
for further proceedings in conformity to this opinion.
Reversed.
BOWMAN v. LOPERENA ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE

NINTH CIRCUIT.
No. 59. Submitted November 20, 1940.-Decided December 9, 1940.
1. A petition in the bankruptcy court for a rehearing, from the
denial',of which an appeal was taken to the Circuit Court of
Appeals in this case, held a petition for rehearing of an order
adjudging the debtor a bankrupt. P. 265.
2. Where a petition for rehearing of an order of the bankruptcy
court adjudging the debtor a bankrupt is allowed to be filed out of
time, and the court upon consideration of the merits denies the
petition, the time for the taking of an appeal from the order of
adjudication runs not from the date of such order but from the
date of the denial of'the petition for rehearing. P. 266.
110 F. 2d 348, reversed.

CERTIORARI, 310 U. S. 621, to review the dismissal of
an appeal from an order of the bankruptcy court adjudicating the debtor a bankrupt.

Mr. Llewellyn A. Luce submitted for petitioner.
No appearance for respondents.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
The sole question for decision is whether the Circuit
Court of Appeals properly dismissed as untimely an appeal from an order made by a District Court sitting in
bankruptcy.
The proceeding was initiated by the petitioner, hereinafter spoken of as the debtor, in the District Court, for

