WISCONSIN v. J. C. PENNEY CO.

435

Statement of the Case.

WISCONSIN

ET AL.

v. JIC. PENNEY CO.

CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF WISCONSIN.

No. 46. Argued November 20, 1940.-Decided December 16, 1940.
1. With respect to domestic and foreign corporations, Wisconsin
imposes. a tax "for the privilege of declaring and receiving dividends" out of income derived -from property located and business
transacted in the State, equal to a specified percentage of such
dividends, the payor corporation being required to deduct the tax
from the dividends, payable to residents or non-residents, and to
report and pay it over to the State. Held:
(1) That the practical operation is to impose a tax on corporate
earnings within Wisconsin, in addition to the general tax on corporate income, but to postpone liability for the tax until such"
earnings are paid out in dividends. P. 441.
(2) The tax is constitutional-consistent with the due process
clause of the Fourteenth Amendment-as applied to a Delaware
corporation having its principal offices in New York, holding its
meetings and voting its dividends in New York, and drawing its
dividend checks on New York bank accounts. P. 442.
2. The constitutionality of a state tax depends upon its operating
incidence and not upon the name or description assigned to it by
the state Supreme Court. P. 443.
3. The privilege granted by a State to a foreign corporation of
carrying on local business supports a tax by that State on the
income derived from that business. P. 444.
4. The fact that such a tax is by the state law imposing it made
contingent upon the happening of events outside of the taxing
Stte-as in this case, upon the declaration and payment of dividends from the local earnings--does not destroy the nexus between
the tax and the local transactions for which it is an exaction.
P. 445.

5. Connecticut General Co. v. Johnson, 303 U. S. 77, distinguished.
P. 445.
233 Wis. 286; 289 N. W. 677, reversed.
CERTIORARI,

310" U. S. 618, to review the reversal of

a judgment which confirmed an order of the Wisconsin
'Tax Commission assessing a tax.

436

OCTOBER TERM, 1940..
Argument for Respondent.

311 U. S.

Messrs. Harold H. Persons, Assistant Attorney General
of Wisconsin, and James Ward Rector, Deputy Attorney
General, with whom Mr. John E. Martin, Attorney
General, was on the brief, for petitioners.
Mr. W. H. Dannat Pell, with whom Messrs. Roswell
Dean Pine, Jr. and G. Burgess Ela were on the brief,
for respondent.
The State had no jurisdiction to tax the corporate
surplus at the time the dividends were paid, notwithstanding that such surplus may have included funds
derived in part from earnings in Wisconsin; nor to tax
the part made up of such earnings. Newark Fire Insurance Co. v. State Board, 307 U. S. 313.
The concept of business situs is susceptible of more
or less. exact definition, and the facts upon which an
alleged business situs is based must be shown with particularity if the presumption favoring domiciliary taxation is to be rebutted.
The record discloses that funds consisting of the proceeds of sales of merchandise in Wisconsin (and in other
States), not needed to meet local payrolls, rents, advertising and other local expenses, are deposited to the
general credit of the respondent in New York banks.
The funds so deposited are used to pay salaries general
overhead of the New York office, accounts payable for
merchandise purchased, and taxes. 'Dividends are also
paid from these New York bank accounts. After leaving
Wisconsin the funds completely lose their identity as
far as having. been derived from. any particular source,
and there is no one in Wisconsin who has anything to
do with them.
It is possible that funds so deposited and used gained
a business situs in New York, sinde the'activities of the
company might conceivably be said to be sufficient to

WISCONSIN v. J. C. PENNEY CO.
435

437

Argument for Respondent.

give it a commercial domicile there under the rule laid
down in Wheeling Steel Corp. v. Fox, 298 U. S. 193.
There is nothing in the facts of this case, however,
except the fact of partial derivation from Wisconsin,
upon which to base an alleged business situs, in that
State, of the New York bank accounts used to pay the
dividends.
We know of no case which indicates that derivation of
earnings alone is or might be sufficient to give bank
accounts containing them a tax situs in the State of
derivation. Many affirmatively indicate that-it-is not.
Connecticut General Life Ins. Co. v. Johnson, 303 U. S.
77; Equitable Life Society v. Pennsylvania, 238
U. S. 143; Provident Savings Assn. v. Kentucky, 239
U. S. 103; Beidler v. South Carolina Tax Comm'n,
282 U. S. 1; Rhode Island Trust Co. v. Doughton,
270 U. S. 69.
The tax can not be sustained as amounting to an
income 'tax upon foreigA corporations doing business
within the State. It is not an income tax but an excise
upon "the payment and receipt of dividends." The
subject of an income tax is income earned within the
State. Hope Gas Co. v. Hall, 274 U. S. 284; Adams Mfg.
Co. v. Storen, 304 U. S. 307, 313; Delaware, L. & W. R.
Co. v. Pennsylvania,198 U. S. 341.
in the case of a foreign corporatioh the basis of jurisdiction to levy an income tax is that the income accrued
in the State. As the income is earned, liability to pay
the tax is incurred: As income may be said to represent
a continuous flow, the calculation Of the tax is simply
deferred until a given date for convenience in measurement. The fact that the income may have been withdrawn from the Stat6 before this calculation date arrived
is immaterial. This does not mean, however, that the
tax may be regarded as being imposed upon a proportionate part of the corporate surplus as of the return day.

438

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Argument for Respondent.

311 U. S.

It simply means that the corporation earning the income
must pay the state's "meterage" charge or render its
property within the State subject to execution.
Although subsection (4) of the statute contains a
presumption that dividends of corporations doing business both inside and outside of the State are paid from
earnings attributable to Wisconsin for the preceding
year, the tax is not limited to cases in which this presumption is not rebutted. Under the law, it would
appear that, even though a corporate surplus had been
accumulated for twenty years and no Wisconsin earnings
realized during that period, the State Tax Commission
would still be obliged to determine what part of a dividend paid by such corporation consisted of funds attributable to Wisconsin earnings, and assess a tax thereon.
The contention that the tax should be treated as a
corporate income tax, notwithstanding the decision of
the State Supreme Court to the contrary, ignores the
principle that this Court is bound by the construction
given the law by the State Supreme Court. Knights
of Pythias v. Meyer, 265 U. S. 30; Guaranty Trust Co.
v. Blodgett, 287 U. S. 509. Petitioners are foreclosed
from asserting it here.
The incidence of the tax is upon the declaration and
receipt of dividends and not upon the earning of income.
American Mfg. Co. v. St. Louis, 250 U. S. 459; Hope
Gas Co. v. Hall, 274 U. S. 284.
It is most likely that a very large proportion of income
realized in one State by a corporation doing business
in several will never be paid out in dividends.
There is no such close connection between the earning
of income in Wisconsin by a foreign corporation, which
does business both within and without the State, and its
payment of dividends as to render a tax upon the one a tax
upon the other. Colorado National Bank v. Bedford, 310

-

WISCONSIN v. J. C. PENNEY 00.
435

Opinion of the Court.

U. S. 41, 52. Cf.. Travis v. Yale & Towne Mfg. Co., 252
U. S. 60.
Petitioners have advanced no contention that the tax
should be sustained as an income tax upon stockholders,
and it would appear to be too clear to admit of serious
controversy that the State of Wisconsin may not impose
an income tax upon respondent's nonresident stockholders.
See Domenech v. United Porto Rican Sujar Co., 62 F. 2d
562; cert. den. 289 U. S. 739. An effort to do this would
amount to a disregard of respondent's corporate entity,
and this may not be done. Rhode Island Trust Co. v.
Doughton, 270 U. S. 69; Klein v. Board of Supervisors,
282 U. S. 19; Beidler v. South Carolina Tax Comm'n,
282 U. S. 1; Ellinger v. Wisconsin State Tax Comm'n,
229 Wis. 71.
The assessment is further void because the'tax was calculated pursuant to the statutory presumption that the
dividends were paid from the previous year's income and
contained an exactly proportionate part of the Wisconsin
earnings for such year. Such presumption is plainly not
in accord with the facts and is, therefore, either rebutted
or is void as arbitrary and unreasonable. If its effect is to
establish a rule of substantive law requiring foreign corporations to declare their dividends from any particular
source, such a presumption is an unconstitutional attempt
to regulate the activities of foreign corporations outside
of the State.
MR. JusTIcE FRANKFURTER

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
Whether the tax imposed by ยง 3 of Chapter 505 of
the Wisconsin Laws of 1935 may apply to a foreign corporation licensed to do business in Wisconsin without
offending the Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution is the question before us. The statute is quoted in

440

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

311 U. S.

the margin.' When this question originally came before
the Supreme Court of Wisconsin it found no constitu'Section 3, Chapter 505, Laws of Wisconsin, 1935, as amended by
Chapter 552, Laws of Wisconsin, 1935:
"Section 3. Privilege Dividend Tax. (1) For the privilege of declaring and receiving dividends, out of income derived from property
located and business transacted in this state, there is hereby imposed
a tax equal to two and one-half per centum of the, amount of such
dividends declared and paid by all corporations (foreign and local)
after the passage and publication of this act and prior to July 1,
1937. Such tax shall be deducted and withheld from such dividends
payable to residents and non-residents by the payor corporation.
"(2) Every corporation required to deduct and withhold any tax
under this section shall, on or before the last day of the month following the payment of the dividend, make return thereof and pay
the tax to the tax commission, reporting such tax on the forms to be
prescribed by the tax commission.
"(3) Every such corporation hereby made liable for such tax, shall
deduct the amount of such tax from the ,dividends so declared.
(4) In the case of corporations doing business within and without
the state of Wisconsin, such tax shall apply only to dividends declared
and paid out of income derived from business transacted and property located within the state of Wisconsin.. The amount of income
attributable to this state shall be computed in accordance with the
provisions of chapter 71. In the absence of proof to the contrary,
such dividends shall be presumed to ha~e been paid out of earnings of
such corporation attributable to Wisconsin under the provisions of
chapter 71, for the year immediately preceding the payment of such
dividend. If a corporation had a loss for the year.prior to the payment of the dividend, the tax commission shall upon application, determine the portion of such dividend paid out of corporate surplus
and undivided profits derived from business transacted and property
located within the state.
"(5) Dividends paid by a subsidiary corporation to its parent shall
not be subject to the tax herein imposed provided that the subsidiary
and its parent report their income for taxation under the provisions
of chapter 71 on a consolidated income return basis, or both corporations report separately.
"(6) The provisions of this section shall not apply to dividends
declared and paid by a Wisconsin corporation out of its income which
it has reported for taxation under the provisions of chapter 71, to the

WISCONSIN v. J. C. PENNEY CO.
435

441

Opinion of the Court.

tional infirmity in such an exaction. State ex rel. Froedtert G. & M. Co. v. Tax Commission, 221 Wis. 225; 265
N. W. 672; 267 N. W. 52. But deeming itself constrained
by its reading of this Court's decision in Connecticut General Co. v. Johnson, 30a U. S. 77, the Wisconsin Supreme
Court in the present case found that the statute ran afoul
the Due Process Clause insofar as it covered locally licensed foreign corporations. 233 Wis. 286; 289 N. W. 677.
Inasmuch as important issues affecting the exertion of the
taxing power of the states are involved, we brought this
and its companion cases here. 310 U. S. 618, 619.
For-many years, corporations chartered by other states
but permitted to carry on business in Wisconsin have
been subject to a general corporate income tax act on
earnings attributable to their Wisconsin activities. The
state has, of course, power to impose such a tax. U. S.
Glue Co. v. Oak Creek, 247 U. S. 321; Underwood Typewriter Co. v. Chamberlain,254 U. S. 113. "For-the privilege of declaring and receiving dividends, out -of income
derived from property located and business fransacted
in" Wisconsin, an exaction "equal to two and one-half
per centum of the amount of such dividends declared
and paid by all corporations (foreign and local)" is the
additional tax now-before us. In the enforcement of this
measure against foreign corporations, the amount of inextent that the business of such corporation consists in the receipts of
dividends from which a privilege dividend tax has been deducted and
withheld and the distribution thereof to its stockholders.
"(7) For the purposes of this section dividends shall be defined as
in section 71.02, except that the tax herein imposed shall not apply to
stock dividend or liquidating dividends.
"(8) The tax hereby levied, if not paid *ithin the time herein provided, shall become delinquent and when delinquent shall be subject
to a penalty of two per cent on the amount of the tax and interest
at the rate of one-half per cent per month until paid.
- "(9)
The tax hereby imposed shall, when collected by the tax com-mission, be paid by it into the state treasury."

442

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

311 U. S.

come attributable to Wisconsin is calculated according
to the same formula as that employed in assessing the
general corporate income tax paid by such foreign corporations. The practical operation of this legislation is
to impose an additional tax on corporate earnings within
Wisconsin but to postpone the liability for this tax until
such earnings are paid out in dividends. In a word, by
its general income tax Wisconsin taxes corporate income
that is taken in; by the Privilege Dividend Tax of 1935
Wisconsin superimposed upon this income tax a tax on
corporate income that is paid out.
As pressures for new revenues become more and more
insistent, ways and means of meeting them present to a
state not only the baffling task of tapping fresh sources
of revenue but of doing so with due regard to a state's
existing taxing system. The tax now assailed gains
nourishing significance when placed in the context of the
Wisconsin taxing system of which it became a part. Wisconsin relied heavily upon taxation of incomes and
largely looked to this source to meet the increasing demands of the depression years. But a special Wisconsin
feature was exemption' of dividends from per'sonal taxation. See Welch v. Henry, 305 U. S. 134, 142-43. This
exemption persisted while regular and surtax ,rates
against personal incomes were raised. Attempts at relief from the unfairness charged against this exemption
of dividends, particularly advantageous to the higher
brackets, were steadily pressed -before the Wisconsin
Legislature. To relieve local earnings of foreign corporations from a dividend tax would have had a depressive
effect on wholly local enterprises. The Privilege Dividend Tax-was devised to reduce at least in part the
state's revenue losses due to dividend exemptions, and
also to equalize the burdens on all Wisconsin-e4rnings,
regardless of the formal home of the corporation.
Had Wisconsin, as part of its price for the privileges
it afforded foreign corporations within its borders, ex-

WISCONSIN v. J. C. PENNEY CO,
435

Opinion of the Court.

plicitly provided for a supplementary tax on the Wisconsin earnings of such corporations, but postponed liability
for the tax until such earnings were to be paid out in
dividends, the power of Wisconsin to do so would hardly
be questioned. Compare Continental Assurance Co. v.
Tennessee, ante, p. 5. But because the legislative language ran "For the privilege of declaring and receiving
dividends; out of income derived from property located
and bisiness transacted in this state" the court below
raised the barrier of the Fourteenth Amendment. Respondent is a Delaware corporation having its principal
offices in New York; its meetings are held in the latter
state where the dividends are voted and the dividend
checks are drawn on New York bank accounts. Since
the process for declaring dividends and the details attending their distribution among the stockholders transpired outside Wisconsin, 'although" the exaction was
apportioned to the earnings derived from Wisconsin, the
state court concluded that the tax was an attempt by
Wisconsin to levy an exaction on transactions beyond
Wisconsin's borders.
The case thus reduces itself to the inquiry whether
Wisconsin has transgressed its taxing power because its
supreme court has described the practical -result of the
exertion of that power by one legal formula rather than
another-has labeled it a tax on the privilege of declaring dividends rather than a supplementary income tax.
A tax is an exaction. Ascertainment of the scope of
the exaction-what is included in it-is for the state
court. But the descriptive pigeon-hole into which A
state court puts a tax is of no moment in determining
the constitutional significance of the exaction. "In whatever language a statute may be framed, its purpose must
be determined by its natural and reasonable effect."
Henderson v. Mayor of New York, 92 U. S. 259, 268.
Such has been the repeated import of the cases which
only recently were well summarized by the guiding for-

444

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

311 U. S.

mulation for adjudicating a tax measure, that "in passing on its constitutionality we are concerned only with
its practical operation, not its definition or the precise
form of descriptive words which may be applied to it."
Lawrence v. State Tax Commission, 286 U. S. 276, 280.
The Constitution is not a formulary. It does not demand of states strict observance of rigid categories nor
precision of technical phrasing in their exercise of the
most basic power of government, that of taxation. For
constitutional purposes the decisive issue turns on the
operating incidence of a challenged tax. A state is free
to pursue its own fiscal policies, unembarrassed by the
Constitution, if by the practical operation of a tax the
state has exerted its power in relation to opportunities
which ithas given, to protection which it has afforded,
to benefits which it has conferred by the fact of being
an orderly, civilized society.
Constitutional provisions are often so glossed over with
commentary that iinperceptibly we tend to construe the
commentary rather than the text. We cannot, however,
be too often reminded that the limits on the otherwise
autonomous powers of the states are those in the Constitution and not verbal weapons imported into it.
"Taxable event," "jurisdiction to tax," "business situs,"
"extraterritoriality," are all compendious ways of implying the impotence of state power because state power
has nothing on which to operate. These tags are not
instruments of adjudication bXLt statements of result in
applying the sole constitutional test for a case like the
present one. That test is whether property was taken
without due process of law, or, if paraphrase we must,
whether the taxing power exerted by the state bears
fiscal relation to protection, opportunities and benefits
given by the state. The simple but controlling question
is whether the state has given; anything for which it
can ask return. The substantial privilege of carrying on

WISCONSIN v. 3. C. PENNEY CO.
435

Opinion of the Court.

business in Wisconsin, which has here been given, clearly
supports the tax, and the state has not given the less
merely because it has conditioned the demand of the
'exaction upon happenings outside its own borders. The
fact that a tax is contingent upon events brought to
pass without a state does not destroy the nexus between
such a tax and transactions within a state for which the
tax is an exaction. See Continental Assurance Co. v.
Tennessee, supra. See also Equitable Life Society v.
Pennsylvania, 238 U. S. 143; Maxwuell v. Bugbee, 250
U. S. 525; Compaiiia de Tabacos v. Collector, 275 U. S.
87, 98; New York ex rel. Cohn v. Graves, 300 U. S.
308; Atlantic & Pacific Tea Co. v. Grosjean, 301 U. S.
412; Atlantic Refining Co. v, Virginia,302 U. S. 22; Curry
v. McCanless, 307 U. S. 357.
This analysis is merely a reformulation of the classic
approach of this Court to the taxing power of the states.
Lawrence v. State Tax Commission, supra, p. 280. Ambiguous intimations of general phrases in opinions torn
from the significance of concrete circumstances, or even
occasional deviations over a long course .of years, not
unnatural in view of the confusing complexities of tax
problems, do not alter the limited nature of the function
of this Court when state taxes come before it. At best,
the responsibility for devising just and productive sources
of revenue challenges the wit of legislators. *Nothing
can be less helpful than for courts to go beyond the
extremely limited restrictions that the Constitution
plices upon the states and to irJect themselves in a
merely negative way into the delicate processes of fiscal
policy-making. We must be on guard against imprisoning the taxing power of the states' within formulas that
are not compelled by the Constitution but merely represent judicial generalizations exceeding the concrete circumstances which they profess to summarize.
Nor does Connecticut General Co. v. Johnson, supra,
present a barrier against what Wisconsin has done. Its

446

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
ROBERTS,

J., dissenting.

311 U.S.

presuppositions recognize the scope of the state taxing
power we have outlined. 303 U. S. 77, 80, 82. In the
precise circumstances presented by the record it was
found that the tax neither in its measure nor in its
incidence was related to California transactions. Here,
on the contrary, the incidence of the tax as well as its
measure is tied to the earnings which the State of Wisconsin has made possible, insofar as government is the
prerequisite for the fruits of civilization for which, as Mr.
Justice Holmes was fond of saying, we pay taxes. See,
for instance, his dissent in Compahia de Tabacos v. Collector, supra, p. 100.
Because the Wisconsin Supreme Court found the statute to be invalid as to foreign corporations in the position of the respondent it had no occasion to pass onl
certain claims relating to the application of the statute
to the specific dividends here involved. We therefore
remand the case for the determination of such questions
as are open in the light of this opinion.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS.

I assume that the principle still holds good that a state,
a member of the sisterhood of states in the Republic,
cannot extend her sovereignty by legislation so as to
prohibit, to regulate, or to tax property or transactions
of citizens of other sovereign states lying outside her
boundaries and regulated by the law of the state of domicile or residence. I assume also that, where a state has,
by law, fixed the conditions upon which a corporate citizen of another state may enter to transact business, she
may ndt thereafter extend her sovereignty to matters
not within her competence, in the guise of annexing other
and further conditions or burdens upon the transaction

WISCONSIN v. J. C. PENNEY CO.
435

ROBERTS,

J., dissenting.

of the corporation's business within her borders. Those
activities which have a real and substantial relation to
the business transacted by the citizen of another state
within her confines are, of course, subject to regulation
and to taxation. It would be mere affectation to cite the
adjudications of this court which are founded-upon these
propositions. I have thought that these principles were
of the very warp and woof of the constitutional system
which binds the states together in a federal union. Attempted transgressions of these limits of state sovereignty have time and again run afoul of the Fourteenth
Amendment.
The respondent admittedly receives income in Wis-.
consin. No one questions the power of Wisconsin to lay
a tax upon the receipt of that income. It has done so.
It is said that the challenged exaction is merely an additional income tax,-this, notwithstanding 'that the tax
is not called an income tax, has been held by the highest.court of Wisconsin not to be an income tax but an
excise upon a privilege,-in the view that in testing the
constitutionality of an exaction this court examines for
itself the nature and incidence of the tax and disregards
mere names and descriptive epithets. With that principle I have no quarrel, but I think the opinion of the
court demonstrates that the tax here in question is, and
can be, sustained only by a disregard of it. Let me illustrate my meaning. Assuming that, by statute, an ad
valorem tax on property is prohibited and an income tax
permitted. The terms used in the statute necessarily
have a conventional connotation. One cannot intelligently discuss things or actions except by using the
names commonly employed to describe them. Concepts
of ad valorem taxation on property and taxation of income-are clear and easily discriminable. What would be

448

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
ROBERTS,

J., dissenting.

311 U.S.

said of a decision construing such a statutory provision
so as to hold a tax of so many cents on the dollar upon
property an income tax because, forsooth, all the property assessed has been received as the fruits of labor, of
industry, or of capital, upon the theory that, as the property had come into existence at some remote date as
income, the tax was an income tax? I think that is
precisely what has been done in this case.
The facts are not in dispute. The respondent receives
income in many states. That income is forwarded to its
home office after bearing whatever tax is laid upon its
receipt in the state of receipt. Thereupon the funds so
forwarded become a portion of the general mass of the
respondent's property, held and administered at its general office. The funds may be employed in the extension of its business; they may be held as insurance
against future business losses or they may be distributed
to its stockholders in dividends. Their management and
their disbursement have no relation to the original receipt of income save only the fact that, like most property,- they are built up as the fruits of income. Their
use and their disbursement does not depend on any law
of Wisconsin and cannot be controlled by any such law.
The act of disbursing them, whether in payment of corporate obligations or as dividends, is one wholly beyond
the reach of Wisconsin's sovereign power, one which it
cannot effectively command, or prohibit or condition.
That distribution cannot be the subject of an excise tax
by the State of Wisconsin. So much the state admits.
Under the challenged statute, a presumption is created
which is shown in the case of the assessment against the
respondent for the years in question to be contrary to
the fact,--namely, that an arbitrarily assumed proportion
of the dividend is paid out of the respondent's earnings
in Wisconsin for the year immediately preceding the payment of such dividend. By the very terms of the Act,

WISCONSIN v. J. C. PENNEY CO.
435

ROBERTS,

J., dissenting.

the tax is laid not on the corporation but on the stockholder receiving the dividend and, by confession, thousands of such stockholders are not residents of Wisconsin.
The corporation is the mere collector of the tax and the
penalty for failure to collect it is that the corporation
must pay it. If the exaction is an income tax in any
sense it is such upon the stockholder and is obviously
bad. It cannot, except by a perversion of the term and
the affixing of an arbitrary label, be denominated a tax
upon the income of the respondent.
The explanation of the reason and purpose for imposing the tax, disclosed in the opinion of the court, serves to
condemn it. If Wisconsin found that dividend income
of stockholders of domestic corporations esca-pd taxation, and should bear it, an effective way to reach the
dividend receipts of the stockholders of such corporations
was to place a tax upon the receipt of dividends by them.
But such a levy upon the stockholders of a foreign corporation, not resident within Wisconsin, obviously was
impossible although that is exactly what was attempted
by the statute in question. We are now told that this
is not a fair exposition of the law but, that, on the contrary, and in the teeth of the known facts, what Wisconsin did was to lay a supplementary income tax upon
foreign corporations. This is simply to take the name
of a well understood concept and assign that name as a
label to something which in ordinary understanding never
fell within such concept. By this process any exaction
can be tortured into something else and then justified
under an assumed name.
The respondent owns property in various states of the
Union. It is reasonable to suppose that much of that
property has been purchased out of corporate surplus,
that is, out of past earnings. An ad valorem tax by
Wisconsin on property so acquired could be q~iite as
easily justified under the label of an income tax because
276055--41--20

450

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
ROBERTS,

J., dissenting.

311 U.S.

the property represented income once received, as the
present tax, on the declaration and receipt of dividends
out of earned surplus.
Upon the facts, the tax is levied on what lies outside
the sovereignty of Wisconsin. Its attempted collection
is a violation of the Due Process Clause of the Fourteenth
Amendment and should be stricken down.
The Supreme Court of Wisconsin could
not have decided otherwise in the light of a recent expression of this
court on the subject. In reaching its decision it professedly followed and applied Connecticut General'Life
Insurdnce Co. v. Johnson, 303 U. S. 77. There a Connecticut life insurance company did business in California under license from that state. .t-entered into contracts with other insurance companies, also licensed to
do business in California, reinsuring them against loss on
lolicies written by them in California on the lives of
California residents. The contracts were made in Connecticut, premiums were paid there, and the losses, if
any, were there payable. California imposed a tax upon
the privilege of the company to do business within California. The tax was measured by the gross premiums
received. California officials attempted to collect the
tax on the premiums received by the Connecticut corporation under the reinsurance contracts in question. The
Supreme Court of California sustained the tax. In that
case, as in this, the highest state court described and
defined the tax. There the tax was denominated "a
franchise tax enacted for the privilege of doing business
in the state." Here, the Supreme Pourt of Wisconsin
has denominated the exaction as a pi'vilege or excise tax
imposed upon the transfer of property. By the very
process the court now professes to employ of disregarding the name given to the tax by the state court, this
court, in the Connecticut General Life Insurance Co.

WISCONSIN v. J. C. PENNEY CO.
435

ROBERTS,

J., dissenting.

case, reached the conclusion that the State of Cajifornia
could not impose the tax on the activities of the Connecticut company which were not within its jurisdiction.
Citing many decisions of this court, it was there- said:
"But the limits of the state's legislative jurisdiction
to tax, prescribed by the Fourteenth Amendment, are to'
be ascertained by reference to the incidence of the tax
upon its objects.-rather than the ultimate thrust of the
economic benefits and burdens of transactions within the
state."
The very argument now invoKed in support of the
present decision was repudiated by the court in the Connecticut case in these words:
"It is said that the state could have lawfully accomplished its purpose if the statute had further stipulated
that the deduction should be allowed only in those cases
where the reinsurance is effected in the state or the reinsurance premiums paid there. But as the state has
placed no such limitation on the allowance of deductions, the end sought can be attained only if the receipt
by appellant of the reinsurance premiums paid in Connecticut upon the Connecticut policies is within the
reach of California's taxing power. Appellee argues that
it is, because the reinsurance transactions are so related
to business carried on by appellant in California as to be
a part of it and properly included in the measure of the
tax; and because, in any case, no injustice is done to
appellant since the effect of the statute as construed is
to redistribute the tax, which the state..might have exacted from the original insurers but did not, by assessing it upon 'appellant to the extent to which it has
received the benefit of the allowed deductions."
In describing the incidence -of the void tax this court
said, as it might with equal accuracy be said of the
instant tax:

452

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Syllabus.

311 U. S.

"Apart from the facts that appellant was privileged to
do business in California, and that the risks reinsured
were originally insured against in that state by companies also authorized to do business there, California
had no relationship to appellant or to the reinsurance
contracts. No act in the course of their formation, performandie or discharge, took place there. The performance of those acts was not dependent upon any privilege
or authority granted by it, and California laws afforded
'to them no protection."
And finally the court concluded:
"All that appellant did in effecting the reinsurance
was done without the state and for its transaction no
privilege or license by California was needful. The tax
cannot be sustained either as laid on property, business
done, or transactions carried on within the state, or as a
tax on a privilege granted by the state."
I think that the judgment below should be affirmed.

.The
MR.

CHIEF JUSTICE, MR. JUSTICE McREYNOLDS

JUSTICE REED

WISCONSIN

and

concur in this opinion.

ET AL.

v. MINNESOTA'MINING &

MANUFACTURING CO.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF WISCONSIN.

No. 48. Argued November 20, 1940.-Decided December 16, 1940.
1. Decided, in part, upon the authority of Wisconsin et al. v. J. C.
Penney Co., ante, p. 435. P. 453.
2. A state tax on earnings of a foreign corporation attributable to
activities in the taxing State, held, consistent with the commerce,
clause, although the liability to pay it was made contingent upon
happenings outside of the State. P. 453.
233 Wis. 306; 289 N. W. 686, reversed.

