1514

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Syllabus.

311 U. S.

The Board of Tax Appeals ruled that petitioner's loss
was deductible in full from its ordinary income. The
court of appeals for the second circuit reversed the Board;
110 F. 2d 614, holding that the loss sustained by petitioner was a loss from a sale of capital assets, § 23 (j),
Which under § 117 (d) could be deducted from the gross
income only to the extent of capital gains, plus $2,000.
We granted certiorari, 310 U. S. 622, so that the case
might be considered with the conflicting decision of the
court of appeals for the sixth circuit in the Hammel case,
108 F. 2d 753. For the reasons stated in our opinion
in the Hammel case we think that this case was rightly
decided below.
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS dissents.

H. J. HEINZ COMPANY v. NATIONAL LABOR
RELATIONS BOARD.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SIXTH CIRCUIT.

No. 73. Argued December 17, 18, 1940.-Decided January 6, 1941.
1. The question of the responsibility of an employer, under the
National Labor Relations Act, 'for unauthorized activities of supervisory employees is not one of legal liability :on principles of agency
or respondeat superior, but only whether the Act condemns such
activities as unfair labor, practices so far as the employer may
gain from them in the bargaining process any advafitage of a kind
which the Act proscribes. To that extent the employer is amenable
to the Board's authority to prevent repetition of such activities
and to remove the consequences of them upon the employees' right
of.self-organization. Pp. 518, 521.
So held where the employer, when advised of activities of supervisory employees encouraging the formation of a plant union, took
no step to notify the employees that such activities were unauthorized, or to correct their impression that support of a rival
labor union was not favored by the employer and would result
in reprisals. P. 521.

H. J. HEINZ CO. v. LABOR BOARD.
514

Opinion of the Court.

2. Whether the continued existence of a labor union, the formation
of which was influenced by unfair labor practices, constitutes an
obstacle to the employees' right of self-organization, is a question
of fact to be determined by the Board from all the circumstances
attending those practices. P. 522.
3. An order of the National Labor Relations Board requiring the
disestablishment of a labor union, the formation of which was
influenced by unfair labor practices, held supported by the evidence. P. 522.
4. Refusal of an employer, on request of a labor organization, to
sign a written contract embodying the terms of an agreement
which he has reached with it concerning wages, hours, and working
conditions, is a refusal to bargain collectively and an unfair labor
practice under § 8 (5) of the Act. P. 525.
5. Under § 10 (c) of the National Labor- Relations Act, the Board
may require an employer who has reached an agreement with a
labor organization concerning wages, hours, and working conditions,
to sign a written contract embodying the terms of the agreement.
P. 526.
110 F. 2d 843, affirmed.

CERTIORARI, 310 U. S. 621, to review a judgment directing enforcement of an order of the National Labor Relations Board.
Mr. Earl F. Reed, with whom Messrs. Roy G. Bostwick and Donald W. Ebbert were on the brief, for petitioner.
Assistant Solicitor General Fahy, with whom Solicitor
General Biddle, and Messrs. Robert B. Watts, Laurence

A. Knapp, and Mortimer B. Wolf were on the brief, for
respondent.
MR. JUSTICE STONE delivered the opinion of the Court.
Three questions are presented by the petition for certiorari in this case.
First. Whether there is support in the evidence for
the finding of the National Labor Relations Board that
petitioner has been guilty of the unfair labor practices

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

311 U. S.

defined by § 8 (1) and (2) of'the Act', interference with
the exercise by its employees 'of their rights of selforganization guaranteed by § 7 of the Act, and more
particularly interference with the formation and organization of a labor union of its employees.
Second. Whether the National Labor Relations Board
exceeded its authority in ordering the disestablishment
of a labor union in whose organization petitioner had
interfered, and
Third. Whether the Board could validly firid that petitioner's refusal 'to join with representatives of the labor
organizati6n authorized to represent its employees in
collective bargaining, in signing a written contract embodying the terms of their agreement concerning wages,
hours and working conditions, constituted a refusal to
bargain .collectively in violation of § 8 (5) of the Act,
and whether the Board exceeded its authority in ordering
petitioner to join in signing the agreement.
This is a proceeding brought by the National Labor
Relations Board in the Court of Appeals for the Sixth
Circuit to enforce the Board's order directing petitioner
to cease certain unfair labor practices in which it found
that petitioner had engaged, in connection with the organization of the Heinz Employees Association, a plant
labor organization of petitioner's eiiiployees; to disestablish the Association; to recognize and bargain collectively with the Canning and Pickle Workers Local,
Union No. 325, a labor organization affiliated with the
'American Federation of Labor; and to sign a written
contract embodying any agreement which petitioner and
th Union may reach respecting wages, hours and working conditions of petitioner's employees. The court of
appeals confirmed' the' findings of the Board and directed
compliance with -the Board's order without modification.
110. F. 2d 843. We granted certioari, 310 U. S. 621, the
questions raised by the petition being of public impor-

H. J. HEINZ CO. v. LABOR BOARD.
514

5117

Opinion of the Oourt.

tance in the administration of the National Labor Relations Act.
The Board found that during April and May, 1937,
the two rival labor organizations, the Association and the
Union, sought to organize petitioner's employees at its
Pittsburgh plant. Petitioner's proposal that an election
be held to determine which organization represented a
majority of its employees was rejected by the Union
which called a strike on May 24, 1937. The strike was
ultimately settled by a, written contract signed by petitioner, the Union, and the Association, which provided
for an election, by the employees, under the supervision
of a regional director of the National Labor Relations
Board for the choice of an organization to represent them
in collective bargaining. Meanwhile, and before the
election, a majority of petitioner's two thousand employees at the Pittsburgh plant had signed petitions for
memb'ership in the Association, but upon the election
held June 8, 1937, a majority of the employees cast their
ballots for the Union. Petitioner has since recognized
and bargained with the Union, but has refused to embody its agreement with the Union in a written contract.
Before the election the'Union had lodged a complaint
with the Board concerning the participation by petitioner in the attempted organization of the Association
by petitioner's employees. The Board found that petitioner had been guilty of unfair labor practices by interfering in the organization of the Association, contrary to
the Act. It found in detail that petitioner, through superintendent, foremen and other supervising employees,
had interfered with, restrained and coerced its employees
in the Vxercise of their rights to organize in violation of
§§ 7, 8 (1) of the Act; that it had dominated and interfered with the formation of the Association and contributed to its support within the meaning of § 8 (2), and
that it had refused to sign an agreement with the Union.

518

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opiion of the Court.

311 U. S.

On the basis of these and subsidiary findings which need
*not now be stated, the Board made its order, the terms
of Which so far as now relevant have already been set
forth.
Petitioner'sResponsibility for Unfair Labor Practices.
It i8 unnecessary to make a detailed examination of the
ev'dence supporting the Board's findings respecting unfair labor practices both l6ecause the court below, after
a thorough examination of the record has confirmed the
Board's findiings, and beca use of the natuxe of petitioner's
contention with respect to them. Petitioner does not
deny that there ig evidence supporting the findings that
-petitioner's superintendent, during the organization campaign, 'upbraided employees .for attending Union meetings, threatened *one with discharge if he joined the
Union, spoke to them dispara'gingly of the Union and
directed some of petitioner's foremen to enroll the employees in the Association or that there was evidence
"supporting the finding that a general foreman wQrking
throughout petitioner's Pittsburgh plant. was active* in
disparaging the Ufilon and its members -to employees,
and in urging them to.repudiate the tnion organization,
or that-three otherforemen in charge of particular buildings or'departments were active in dissuading employees
-from joining the Union. All three spoke disparagingly
of the Union, one at a meeting of 'employees which
he
.had called; and two were admive.in questioning employees
concerning their "lab6r union'sympathies. Two of them
threatened employees with discharge or loss of work or
privileges:if the Union were recognized.
There Was alsoevidence that other folemen or .forewomen ir charge of ilarge groups of employees engaged
in similar activities; and that 'some solicited employees
to join the Asaociation; that- one of the three foremen
induced an emlloyee to solicit signatumes tou, he Association petition during working hours without loss of ay,

H. J. HEINZ CO. v. LABOR BOARD.
514

Opinion of the Court.

and suggested the names of other employees to aid in
this work. There was also evidence that leaders or supervisors of employee groups were allowed to go about
the plant freely during working hours and without loss
of pay to solicit memberships in the Association which
was done in the presence of the foremen.
Petitioner does not seriously dispute this evidence or
challenge the findings of the Board summarizing it. The
contention is that the activities of these supervisors of
employees are not shown to have been authorized or
ratified by petitioner; that following a complaint by a
representative of the Union, about May 1st, one of petitioner's officers instructed the superintendent that the
employees had a right to organize and that he wished
the supervising force to understand that they should
.nbt be interfered with in any way in organizing, and
that on May 21st the officer in question called a meeting
of the supervisory force at which he gave like instructions; that there is no evidence of like activities after
this time and that since the :election petitioner has consistently recognized and bargained with the Union.
From all this petitioner concludes that it .is not chargeable with any responsibility for the acts of its supervisory
employees and that consequently the evidence does not
support the findings of unfair labor practices on its part,
or justify the Board's order prohibiting petitioner,' its
officers and agents from interfering with the administration of the Association or contributing to its support.
Notwithstanding the knowledge from the start of some
of petitioner's officers, of the organization campaign, and
notwithstanding the unusual excitement and activity in
petitioner's plant attending it, we assume that all were
unaware of the activities of its supervisory staff complained of, and did nothing to encourage them before
the complaint of their activities made by a representative
of the Union about May 1st. At that time the camL

520

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

311 U. S.

paign for membership in the rival unions was at its
height and resulted, as announced some three or four
weeks later, in a majority of petitioner's employees signing as members of the Association.
It is conceded that petitioner's superintendent and
foremen have authority to recommend the employment
and discharge of workmen. It is in evidence that they
can recommend wage increases and that the group leaders also issued orders directing and controlling the employees and their work, with authority to recommend
their discharge. There is evidence -supporting the
Board's conclusion that the employees regarded the foremen and the group leaders as representatives of the petitioner and- that a number of employees signed as members of the Association only because of the fear of loss
of their jobs or of discrimination by the employer induced
by the activities of the foremen and group leaders.
We do not doubt that the Board could have found
these activities to be unfair labor practices within the
meaning of the Act if countenanced by petitioner, and
we think that to the extent that petitioner may seek or
be in a position to secure any advantage from these practices they are not any the less within the condemnation
of the Act because petitioner did not authorize or direct
them. In a like situation we have recently held that the
employer, whose supervising employees had, without his
authority, so far as appeared, so participated in the organization activities of his employees as to prejudice their
rights of self-organization, could not resist the Board's
order appropriately designed to preclude him from gaining any advantage through recognizing or bargaining
with a labor, organization resulting from such activities.
Internation'al Association of Machinists v. National
Labor Relations Board, ante, p. 72. See National Labor
Relations Board v Link-Belt Co., post, p. 584.

H. J. HEINZ CO. v. LABOR BOARD.
514

521

Opinion of the Court.

The question i not one of legal liability of the employer in damages or for penalties on principles of
agency or respondeat superior,but only whether the Act
condemns such activities as unfair labor practices so far
as the employer may gain from them any advantage in
the bargaining process of a kind which the Act proscribes.
To that extent we hold that the employer is within the
reach of the Board's order to prevent any repetition of
such activities and to remove the consequences bf them
upon the employees' right of self-organization, quite as
much as if he had directed them.
This is the more so here where petitioner, when advised of the participation of his supervising employees
in the organization campaign, took no step, so far as
appears, to notify the employees that those activities
were unauthorized, or to correct the impression of the
employees that support of the Union was not favored by
petitioner and would result in reprisals. From that time
on the Board could havbe found that petitioner was as
responsible for the effect of the activities of its foremen
and group leaders upon the organization of the Association as if it had directed them in advance. The Board
could have concluded that this effect was substantial, for
it. was in the succeeding three weeks that more than onehalf of the majority of petitioner's employees who joined
the Association signed their petitions, for membership.
We think there was adequate basis for the Board's order
prohibiting petitioner, its officers and agents, from interfering with the exercise of its employees' rights of selforganization or with the administration of the Association or Contributing to its support.
The Order Disestablishing the Association. What we
have said of the unfair labor practices found by the
Board, when considered with its unchallenged findings
as to the relations of petitioner to the two unions, affords

522

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

.311 U. S.

the answer to petitioner's contention that the Board was
without authority to compel disestablishment of the Association. Disestablishment is a remedial measure under
§ 10 (c) to be employed by the Board in its discretion
to remove the obstacle to the employees' right of selforganization, resulting from the continued or renewed
recognition of a union whose organization has been influenced by unfair labor practices. Whether this recognition is such an obstacle is an inference of fact to be
drawn by the Board from all the' circumstances attending
those practices. National Labor Relations Board v.
Pennsylvania Greyhound Lines, 303 U. S. 261; National
Labor Relations Board v. Neipoft News Shipbuilding &
Dry Dock Co., 308 U. S. 241, 250.

Petitioner argues that as it has now recognized- the
Union and bargains with it, it should be equally free
to recognize the Association instead of the Union whenever the former represents a majority of the employees.
But in weighing this contention the Board could consider,
as it did, that petitioner had failed to notify its employees
that it repudiated the participation of its supervising
employees in the organization of the Association and so
has not removed the belief of the employees that petitioner favored and would continue to favor the Association and the employees joining it over others; that
it had not mentioned the name of the Union in its
bulletins announcing the terms of its agreement with
the Union, and although it had reached an agreement
with the Union had persistently refused to sign any
written contract with it.
From this and other circumstances disclosed by the
evidence, 'the Board inferred, as it might, that the influence of the participation of petitioner's employees in the
organization of the Association had not been removed
and that there was danger that petitioner would seek
to take advantage of such continuing influence to renew

H. J. HEINZ CO. v. LABOR BQARD
514

523

Opinion of the Court.

its recognition of the Association and control its action.
This we think afforded adequate basis for the Board's
order. National Labor Relations Board v. Pennsylvania
Greyhound Lines, supra;NationalLabor Relations Board
v. Falk Corp., 308 U. S. 453, 461, 462; National Labor
Relations Board v. Link-Belt Co., post, p. 584. Nothing
in the order precludes members of the Association from
establishing an organization independently of participation by petitioner and its officers and agents, and from
securing recognition through certification of the Board
or an election as provided by .§9 (c) of the Act.
The Employer's Refusal to Sign a Written Agreement.
It is conceded that although petitioner has reached an
agreement with the Union concerning wages, hours and
working conditions of the employees, it has nevertheless
refused to sign any contract embodying the terms of the
agreement. The Board supports its order directing petitioner, on request of the Union, to sign a written contract embodying the terms agreed upon on the ground,
among others, that a refusal to sign is a refusal to bargain within the meaning of the Act.
In support of this contention it points to*the history
of the collective bargaining process showing that its ob-

ject has long been an agreement between employer and
employees as to wages, hours and working conditions evidenced by a signed contract or statement in writing,
which serves both as recognition of the union with which
the agreement is reached and as a permanent memorial
of its terms.' This experience has shown that refusal to
1

Lewis L. Lorwin, The American Federation of Labor, p. 309;

Commons and Associates, Hiftory-of Labor in the United States,
vol. II, pp. 179-181, 423-424, .480; Perlman* and Taft,. History of
Labor in the United States, 189&-1932, vol. IV, pp. 9-10; Paul
Mooney, Collective Bargaining, pp. 13-14; Twentieth- Century Fund,
Inc., Labor and the Government, p. 339.
Concerning the growth and extent of signed 'trade agreements, see
National Labor Relations Board, Division of. Economic Research

524

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

311 U. S.

sign a written' contract has been a not infrequent means
of frustrating the bargaining process through the refusal
to recognize the labor organization as a party to it and
the refusal to provide an authentic record of its terms
which could be exhibited to employees, as evidence of
the good faith of the employer. Such refusals have
proved fruitful sources of dissatisfaction and disagreement. Contrasted with the unilateral statement by the
employer of his, labor policy, the signed agreement has
been regarded as the effective instrument of stabilizing
labor relations and preventing, through collective bargaining, strikes and industrial strife.'
Before the enactment of the National Labor Relations
Act it had been the settled practice of the administra-,
tive agencies dealing with labor relations to treat the
signing pf a written contract embodying a wage and hour
agreement as the final step in the bargaining process.'
Congress, in' enacting the National Labor Relations Act,
had before it the record of this experience, H. Rept. No.
1147, 74th Cong., 1st Sess., p. 5, and see also pp. '3,.7,
15-18, 20-22, 24; S. Rept. No. 573, 74th Cong., 1st Sess.,
pp. 2, .8, 9, 13, 15, 17. The House Committee recomBull. No. 4, Written Trade Agreements in Collective Bargaining,
pp. 213-236; 49-209; U. S. Dept. of Labor, Bureau of Labor Statistics,
Five Years of Collective Bargaining, pp. 5-7; Saposs and Gamin,
Rapid increase in Contracts, 4 Labor Relations Reporter No. 15, p. 6.
'Sumner H. "Slichter, Annals of the American Academy (March,
1935), pp. 110-120; R. R. R. Brooks, When Labor Organizes, p. 224.
Cf. Matter of Inland Steel Ca., 9 N. L. R. B. 783, 796-797.
' Carroll R. Daugherty, Labor Problems in American -Industry
(Rev. ed. 1938), pp. 936-937; Mitchell, Organized Labor, p. 347;
George G. Groat, An Introduction to the Study of Organized Labor
in America (2d ed. 1926), pp. 337-339, 341, 345, 346; First. Annual
Report, National Mediation BbArd, pp. 1-2.
"The National Mediation Board administering the Railway Labor
Act of 1926, as amended in 1934, 44 Stat. 577, 48 Stat. 1185, interpreted that Act which imposed a duty "to exert every reasonable

H. J. HEINZ CO. v. LABOR BOARD.
514

Opinion of the Court.

mended the legislation as "an amplification and clarification of the principles enacted into law by the Railway Labor Act and by § 7 (a) of the National Industrial
Recovery Act." H. Rept. 1147, supra, p. 3 and stated,
page 7, that§ § 7 and 8 of the Act guaranteeing collective
bargaining to employees was a reenactment of the like.
provision of § 7 (a) of the National Industrial Recovery
Act, see Consolidated Edison Co. v. Labor .Board, 305
U. S. 197, 236; Labor Board v. Sands Mfg. Co., 306 U. S.
332, 342.
We. think that Congress, in thus incorporating in the
new legislation the collective bargaining requirement of
the earlier statutes included as a part of it, the signed
agreement long recognized under the earlier acts as the
final step. in the bargaining process. It is true that the'
National Labor Relations Act, while requiring the employer to bargain collectively, does not compel him to
enter into an agreement. But it does not follow, as
petitioner axgues, that, having reached an agreement, he
cAn refuse to sign it, because he has never agreed to sign
one. He may nv* have agreed to bargain but the'
effort to make and maintain agreements concerning rates of pay,
rules, and working conditions . . .," to require signed contracts.
See First Annual Report, National Mediation Board (1935), pp.
1-2, 36.
The National .Labor Board, created to' administer § 7 (a) of' the
National Industrial Recovery Act, 48 Stat: 195, held that the duty
to bargain collectively, imposed by that section included an obligation
to embody agreed terms in a signed trade agreement. See, Matter of
Harriman Hosiery Mills, 1 N. L. B. 68; Matter of Pierson Mfg.
Co., 1 N. L. B. 53; Matter of. National Aniline & Chemical Co.,
2 N. L. B. 38; Matter of Connecticut Coke Co., 2, N. L. B. 88.'
See, also, Matter of Whittier Mills Co., Textile Labor Relations Board,
Case No. 34. Its successor, the first National Labor .RelationsBoard
did likewise. See, Matter of Houde Engineering Co., 1 N. L. R. B.
(old)' 35; Matter of Denver Towel Supply Co., 2 N. L. R. B. (old)

221; Matter of Colt's Patent Fire Arm Co., 2 N. L. R. B. (old) 155.

526

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

311 U. S.

statute requires him to do so. To that extent his freedom is restricted in order to secure the legislative objective of collective bargaining as the means of cuIrtailing
labor disputes affecting interstate commerce. The freedom of the employer to refuse to make an agreement
relates to its terms in matters of substance and not, once
it is reached, to its expression in a signed contract, the
absence of which, as experience has shown, tends to frustrate the end sought by the requirement for collective
bargaining. A business man who entered into negotiations with another for an agreement having numerous
provisions, with the reservation that he would not reduce
it to writing or sign it, could hardly be thought to have
bargained in good faith. This is even more so in the
case of an employer who, by his refusal to honor, with
his signature, the agreement which he has made with a
labor organization, discredits the organization, impairs
the bargaining process and tends to frustrate the aim of
the statute to secure industrial peace through collective
bargaining.
Petitioner's refusal to sign was a refusal to bargain
collectively and an unfair labor practice defined by § 8
(5). The Board's order requiring petitioner at the request of the Union to sign a written contract embodying
agreed terms is authorized by § 10 (c). This is the conclusion which has been reached by five of the six courts
of appeals which have passed upon the question.5
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE McREYNOLDS took no part in the consideration or decision of this case.
'Bethlehem Shipbuilding Corp. v. NationalLabor Relations Board,
114 F. 2d 930 (C. C. A. 1st); Art Metals Construction Co. v.
National Labor Relations Board, 110 F. 2d 148 (C. C. A. 2d);
National Labor Relations Board v. Highland Park Mfg. Co., 110 F.
2d 632 (C. C. A. 4th); Wilson & Co., Inc. v. National Labor Relations
Board, 115 F. 2d 759 (C. C. A. 8th); Continental Oil Co. v. National

