DRIVERS' UNION v. LAKE VALLEY CO.

91

Syllabus.

83

to remand to the Board of Tax Appeals for proceedings
in conformity with this opinion.
Reversed.
Mit. JusTicE ROBERTS, MR. JUSTICE BLACK, and MR.
JUSTICE DOUGLAS are of opinion that the judgment should
be affirmed.
MILK WAGON DRIVERS' UNION, LOCAL NO. 753
ET AL. v. LAKE VALLEY FARM PRODUCTS, INC.
ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE

SBVENTH CIRCUIT.
No. 20. Argued October 21, 22, 1940,-Decided November 18, 1940.
A union of milk-wagon drivers, employed by local dairies in delivering milk, mainly from door to door to retail customers, picketed
a large number of retail stores which sold, at cut prices on the
cash-and-carry plan, milk bought at wholesale from individuals,
called "vendors," who delivered it by their own trucks from supplies bought from other dairies under an arrangement whereby the
milk that they did not sell was taken back at full purchase price
by the dairies that supplied it. This "vendor system" had made
inroads on the business of union dairies and affected unfavorably
the wages and employment of members of the drivers' union.
The union claimed that it constituted unfair competition-a device
to escape union wages and union working conditions-and through
the picketing it sought to compel the "vendors" to join it for the
purpose of improving their wages and working conditions. Two of
the "cut-price" dairies joined with an industrial union (organized
by their employees, including "vendors") and r co~perative association of another State from which they obtained' their supplies of
milk, in a suit charging the drivers' union and its officers with a
conspiracy to restrain interstate commerce inmilk in violation of
the Sherman Act, and seeking an injunction against the picketing
and attendant trespasses. Held:
1. That there existed a "labor dispute" within the meaning of
the Nord-LaGuardia Act. P. 96.

92

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

311 U. S.

2. It was not material in this regard that the attempt of the
drivers' union to unionize the "vendors" 'was upon condition that,
if admitted to that union, they would cease to handle milk as
"vendors." P. 98.
3. The controversy did not cease to be a 'labor dispute" when
the plaintiff dairies' employees became organized. P. 99.
4. The requirements of the Norris-LaGuardia Act not having
been met, the District Court had no jurisdiction to grant an
injunction, notwithstanding that the suit was based upon alleged
violation of the Sherman Act. P. 100.
108 F. 2d 436, reversed; District Court affirmed.
CERToRARI, 309 U. S. 649, to review a decree which

reversed a decree dismissing, for want of jurisdiction, a
bill praying for an injunction.
Mr. Abraham W. Brussell, with whom Mr. David A.
Riskind was on the brief, for petitioners.
Mr. Arthur R. Seelig for respondents.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK

delivered the opinion of the Court.

This proceeding presents two questions: First, Does
there here exist a "labor dispute" within the meaning of
the Norris-LaGuardia Act?' Second, If there is a "labor
dispute," must the jurisdictional prerequisites of the
Norris-LaGuardia Act 2 be complied with before injunc'29 U. S. C. §§ 101-115, 47 Stat. 70. The Act defines a labor
dispute as follows: "The term 'labor dispute' includes any controversy
concerning terms or conditions of employment, or concerning the
association or representation of persons in negotiating, fixing, maintaining, changing, or seeking to arrange terms or conditions of employment, regardless of whether or not the disputants stand in the
proximate relation of employer and employee." 29 U. S. C. § 113 (c),
47 Stat. 73.
"No court of the United States, as herein defined, shall have
jurisdiction to issue any restraining order or temporary or permanent
injunction in a case involving. or growing out of a labor dispute,
except in a strict conformity with the provisions of this Act . .
29 U. S. C. § 101, 47 Stat. 70.

DRIVERS' UNION v. LAKE VALLEY CO.
91

93

Opinion of the Court.

tive process can be used against a labor union accused
of violating the Sherman Anti-Trust Act? '
The District Court found that this was a case "involving or growing out of a labor dispute"; that plaintiffs
(respondents here) had failed to satisfy the prerequisites
of the Norris-LaGuardia Act; and that, accordingly, the
court was without jurisdiction to grant either a temporary
or a permanent injunction. The Circuit Court of Appeals reversed, one judge dissenting; it was the opinion
of that court that the case did not grow out of a labor
dispute, and that even if it had, a federal court would have
jurisdiction to enjoin if the Sherman Act had been violated.' Because of the importance of these questions, we
granted certiorari.
The Norris-LaGuardia Act applies to labor disputes
between "persons who are engaged in the same industry,
trade, craft or occupation; or have direct or indirect interests herein." 7I Here, all of the parties have "direct
or indirect interests" in the production, processing, sale,
and distribution of milk. Plaintiffs, who sought the injunction, were four: one was the Chicago local of a C. I. 0.
union, the Amalgamated Dairy Workers; two were Chicago dairies whose milk was processed and distributed
by members of the C. I. 0. union; I the fourth was a
- 15 U. S. C. §§ 1-7, 26 Stat. 209, as amended. Section 1 provides:
"Every contract, combination in the form of trust or otherwise, or
conspiracy, in restraint of trade or commerce among the several
States, or with foreign nations, is hereby declared to be illegal."

' 108 F. 2d 436.

A There is no diversity of citizenship, and federal jurisdiction, if
present at all, exists because of violation of the Sherman Act. The
contention that interstate commerce is involved stems from the fact
that defendants, in Chicago, picketed retail stores selling milk proIuced in Wisconsin. In the view we take of the case, we find it

unnecessary to pass on this question.
309 U. S. 649.
'29 U. S. C. § 113 (a), 47 Stat. 73.
'As to one of these plaintiff dairies, the complaint was voluntarily
dismissed.

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

311 U. S.

Wisconsin co6perative association which supplied milk
to the plaintiff dairies. Defendants were the Chicago
local of the A. F. of L. Milk Wagon Drivers' Union, and
its officials. The defendant union is a craft organization,
limiting its membership to milk wagon drivers; the plaintiff union is organized along industrial lines, and its membership consists of all kinds of dairy workers, including
inside help, office workers, wagon drivers, helpers, sweepers and janitors.
A brief statement as to the background of the controversy is necessary for a better understanding of the issues. The Chicago local of the A. F. of L. Milk Wagon
Drivers' Union was organized in 1902. Since the organization, working conditions of the members have been
materially improved; hours have been shortened, wages
have been raised, and vacation periods with full pay have
been secured. These better terms and conditions of employment have moved concurrently with a more or less
steady increase in union membership and influence. At
the time this litigation was begun the union had more
than five thousand members.
With the approach and continuance of the depression
of the early Thirties, the milk business, like other industries, was in acute distress. Loss of profits from decreased demand stimulated dairies to devise new and
cheaper methods to obtain and serve customers. Under
the long existing practice in Chicago, dairies had owned
milk trucks and wagons, and had operated them with
employee drivers-chiefly members of the A. F. of L.
local. A major part of the business consisted of doorto-door deliveries to retail customers. Some of the
A. F. of L. drivers also delivered milk to retail stores,
those stores in turn selling to their customers. What
appears to have been an insignificant part of the milk
supply of pre-depression Chicago was delivered by retail
milk "peddlers" who bought from the dairy at wholesale and sold at retail from their own trucks or wagons.

DRIVERS' UNION v. LAKE VALLEY CO.
91

95

Opinion of the Court.

But with the depression this practice of sale by "peddlers"
expanded, branched out into sales to retail stores, and
developed into what is called the "vendor system"around which revolves the present controversy. Retail
peddling started the controversy; at the root of the conflict, however, is this later emerging "vendor system,"
under which "vendors" delivered milk at wholesale to
retail stores. Under this system, plaintiff dairies make
daily sales of milk to individuals owning their own trucks.
These individuals, called "vendors," resell the milk to
retail stores. Unsold milk is no loss to the "vendor,"
because the dairy takes it back at the full purchase price.
With the spread of this new competitive system, the
business of the dairies employing union milk wagon
Many of the union drivers lost their
drivers decreased. %
jobs and were dependent upon their union's relief funds
and upon public relief agencies for their support. How
many of those who lost their jobs became unemployed as
the result of the depression and how many were displaced
by the growth of the "vendor system" cannot be determined; both causes-undoubtedly contributed.
The stores buying milk from plaintiff dairies through
these vendors made a practice of selling it below the
standard prices charged for milk supplied by dairies employing A. F. of L. drivers. Defendant union and its
members claimed that the reason the price could be cut
was that the vendors worked long hours, under unfavorable working conditions, without vacations, and with very
low earnings. On the other hand, the vendors and the
.dairies utilizing their services asserted that the reason for
the lower prices was that the vendor system was more
economical, that under it more milk could be delivered by
wholesale to the cash and carry cut-rate stores, and that
such distribution cost less even on the same wage level
than did door-to-door distribution. As the vendor system
made increasing inroads on the business of the union
dairies, the opposition of the defendant union became

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

311 U. S.

more active. Its members insisted that the vendor system constituted unfair competition, depressing labor
standards. To combat it, they attempted-as the District Court found from the facts-to unionize the employees and vendors of the dairies utilizing this plan.
Not succeeding in this attempt, in 1934 they began picketing the so-called cut-rate stores. The picketing was
carried on almost continuously until this suit was filed.
Pickets usually carried placards denouncing cut-rate
stores as unfair to the A. F. of L. local. During the years
in which this strife continued, store windows were broken,
personal altercations occurred, charges and countercharges were frequent, arrests were made and court proceedings instituted. Finally, in March, 1938-about two
months before the complaint was filed in this case-the
vendors and the other employees of the plaintiff dairies
organized the plaintiff union under a C. I. 0. charter.
Thereupon signs were placed inside the cut-rate store
windows, announcing that the milk handled by the stores
was processed and delivered by members of the plaintiff
union. But this did not settle the long-standing controversy; the picketing continued, and this suit followed.
The petition for an injunction rests primarily upon the
charge that the defendant union and its officials had entered into a conspiracy to interfere with and restrain
interstate commerce in violation of the Sherman and
Clayton Acts. It is contended by plaintiffs that the controversy is not a labor dispute within the meaning of the
Norris-LaGuardia Act, but is an unlawful secondary boycott of which the purpose is not to unionize the vendors
but to obtain for the defendants' employers a Chicago
milk monopoly at a sustained high price level, contrary to
the Sherman Act.
First. The complaint on its face is probably sufficient
to show that a labor dispute existed.' We need not decide
'Among other things, the complaint revealed that the vendors were
members of the 0. 1. 0. union which had made a contract touching on

DRIVERS' UNION v. LAKE VALLEY CO.
91

97

Opinion of the Court.

that point, however, for the case proceeded to final judgment. Defendants filed an answer, and the court referred
plaintiffs' motion for a temporary 'injunction toa special
master. The master conducted extensive hearings, and
heard evidence offered by both sides. In his report, the
master found, in the language of the Norris-LaGuardia
Act, that the chse arose out of and involved a labor "dispute between one or more employers or associations of
employers and one or more employees or associations of
employees," all of whom were engaged in the same industry, trade, craft or occupation, namely, the milk industry; that defendants had attempted for some time to
unionize the employees of the plaintiff dairies and of
other cut-rate dairies, and that the picketing was an effort
on the part of the defendants to compel the vendors and
wagon drivers of the dairies to join the defendant union
for the purpose of improving working conditions and
wages of vendors; that the working hours of the plaintiff
dairies' employees were longer and the wage scales lower
than the union standards. ° The District Court adopted
the findings of the master, and made further findings of
its own.
the terms and conditions of employment with the plaintiff dairies,
that the vendors' right of organization and collective representation
for the purpose of avoiding industrial strife with the defendant union
should be protected, and that the plaintiff union and the defendant
union were in actual competition in obtaining employment in connection with the sale and distribution of milk in the City of Chicago.
Plaintiffs complain of the form in which this last finding was made.
Undoubtedly, the Master failed to. use apt language in expressing
his conclusions. But the language used, read. in its context and in
conjunction with the entire record, reveals that the objections to the
finding are without foundation. What the Master said in his report.
was: "The Master is of the opinion that the dispute involved in the
instant case brings it within the provisions of the Norris-LaGuardia
Act . .. The testimony of defendants' witnesses is to the effect that
they have attempted for some time to unionize the employees Zf
the Plaintiff Dairies and other cut-rate Dairies; that the picketing
complained of herein is an effort to jompel the vendors, and wagon
drivers employed by the Plaintiff Dairies to join the defendant union"
27655°--41

7

98

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Oninion of the Court.

311 U. S.

It is not material, as the Circuit Court of Appeals
thought, that defendants' attempt to unionize the vendors was upon the condition that they would cease to
handle milk as "vendors" if admitted to membership
in the union. There are few instances of attempted
'unionization in which a change to union membership
would not require some alteration in the conditions or
terms of employment. Union membership contemplates
change--change which it is believed will bring about
better working conditions for the employees. Moreover,
the evidence offered by the plaintiffs themselves shows
that membership in defendant union would have involved
no substantial change in the vendors' relationship to the
dairies. Truck drivers employed by dairies were eligible
for membership in the defendant union, and plaintiffs'
evidence showed that the "vendors" were actually regarded as employees of the plaintiff dairies. The plaintiffs offered as a part Of *their evidence the articles of
agreement between the plaintiff union and the plaintiff
dairies; each of those contracts contains the following
provision: "The term 'employee,' as used in this Agreement shall mean all wholesale and retail route salesmen
or drivers and their helpers and assistants; all milk distributors commonly referred to as 'Vendors'; all persons
employed in the saL and, distribution of the Company's
products; . . . " And eich agreement provided for a
closed shop and gave to plaintiff union the exclusive
right to represent all the dairy's employees, including the
vendors, for purposes of negotiating on "all questions of
wages, hours, and conditions of employment that shall
prevail in the Company's business." "
Whether rightly or wrongly, the defendant union believed that the "vendor system" was a scheme or device
for the purpose of improving working conditions and wages of said
vendors and employees of the Plaintiff Dairies, and that the working
hours and wage scale of Plaintiff Dairy's employees is lower than the
Union scale."
'On the subject of the actual status of the vendors, the president

DRIVERS' UNION v. LAKE VALLEY CO.
91

99

Opinion of the Court.

utilized for the purpose of escaping the payment of union
wages and the assumption of working conditions commensurate with those imposed- Under union standards.

To say, as the Circuit Court of Appeals did, that the
conflict here is not a good faith labor issue, and that
therefore there is no "labor dispute," is to ignore the
statutory definition of the term; to say, further, that the
conditioned abandonment of the vendor system, under

the circumstances, was an issue unrelated to labor's efforts
to improve working conditions, is to shut one's eyes to
the everyday elements of industrial strife.
Nor does the controversy cease to be a labor dispute,
as the Circuit Court of Appeals thought, because the
plaintiff dairies' employees became organized.' 2 This
merely transformed the defendants' activities from an effort to organize non-union men to a conflict which included' a controversy between two unions. A controversy "concerning the association or representation of
persons in negotiating, fixing, maintaining, changing, or
of one of the plaintiff*dairies testified -s follows:
"The Witness [Sigfried Weiss, president of the Lake Valley dairy],.
He wants to know if they are employed by the dairy?
"Mr. Riskind [attorney for defendants]. Yes, that is all I want to
know.
"A. Now that is not so easy to say, if they are employed or not.
We have contracts, and they are bound to our dairy. They are
actually employed by our dairy, but we have the vendor system,
where they own their own trucks and they pay their own expenses
and they buy milk at a certain price at our dairy. In one way they
are employees, and in another way, we don't pay wages. We have to
pay whatever they can make over a certain price. We charge them
a certain price."
""Under these conditions we think it cannot be fairly said that
there is a good faith labor issue involved between the defendant union
and either the dairies' employees or the 'vendors' or the stores.
Especially is this true when we consider the fact that the 'vendors'
are organized as members of a well-recognized union, which with
their consent is acting as their representative in matters dealing
with their employers." 108 F. 2d at 442.

100

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

31f U. S.

seeking to arrange terms or conditions of employment"
is expressly included within the definition of a labor dispute in the Norris-LaGuardia Act.
The District Court not only found that a labor dispute
existed, but also found that it was without jurisdiction to
grant an injunction because the requirements of the Norris-LaGuardia Act had not been met. We do not understand that the' Circuit Court of Appeals overturned this
finding. That court said: "Again, if jurisdiction were
conceded and there was a labor dispute involved, then it
is quite doubtful if appellants could recover because they
have not in every respect complied with the requirements
of the Norris-LaGuardia Act." We agree with the District Court that this case grows out of a labor dispute.
Since the requirements of the Norris-LaGuardia Act have
not been met, the court did not have jurisdiction to grant
an injunction unless by virtue of that phase of the bill
which charged a violation of the Sherman Anti-Trust Act.
Second. The Court of Appeals concluded that the defendants' picketing aotivities constituted a secondary
boycott in violation of the Sherman Anti-Trust Act, and
that for this reason, regardless of the Norris-LaGuardia
Act, the District Court had jurisdiction to grant an injunction even though the case arose out of or involved a
labor dispute.18 In this the court was in error.
No specifio language of the Norris-LaGuardia Act is
pointed to in support of the theory that the Act was to
be inapplicable where' injunctions are sought against
labor unions charged with violating the Sherman Act in
"The court said: "Moreover, we think it is clear from the findings
and from the undisputed evidence in this case that the. appellees'
picketing activities constitute a secondary boycott, which is an unlawful activity, of which appellees could not avail themselves even
though a labor dispute were involved. See Duplex Printing Press
Company v. Deering, 254 U. S. 443; Meadowmoor Dairies, Inc., v.

Milk Wagon Drivers' Union of Chicago, No. 753, 371 Ill. 377; 21
N. E. 2d 308," 108 F. 2d at 442.

DRIVERS' UNION v. LAKE VAILEY CO. 101
91

Opinion of the Court.

the course of labor disputes. On the contrary, § 1 of the

Norris-LaGuardia Act provides that "No court of the
United States . shall have jurisdiction to issue 'any
restraining order or temporary or permanent injunction

in a case involving or growing out of a labor dispute, except in a strict conformity with the provisions of this
Act." This unequivocal jurisdictional limitation is reiterated in other sections of the Act. The Norris-LaGuardia
Act-considered as a whole and in its various parts--was
intended drastically to curtail the equity jurisdiction of
federal courts in the field of labor disputes. And this
Court has said that "the legislative history of the Act
demonstrates that it was the purpose of the Congress further to extend the prohibitions of the Clayton Act respecting the exercise of jurisdiction by federal courts and
to obviate the results of the judicial construction of that
Act." 14
The committee reports on the Norris-LaGuardia Act
reveal that many of the injunctions which were considered most objectionable by the Congress were based upon
complaints charging conspiracies to violate the Sherman
Anti-Trust Act. To end the granting of injunctions of
* this type, § 5 of the Norris-LaGuardia Act deprived federal courts of jurisdiction to issue restraining orders or
injunctions "upon the ground that any Of the persons participating or interested in a labor dispute constitute or are
engaged in an unlawful combination or conspiracy because
-

of the doing in concert of the acts enumerated . . ." In

reporting the bill, the House Judiciary Committee said:
"This section is included principally because many of the
objectionable injunctions have been issued under the
provisions of the anti-trust laws, a necessary prerequisite
for invoking the jurisdiction of which is a finding of the
existence of a conspiracy or combination and without
which no injunction culd have been issued." 15
" New Negro Alliance v. Sanitary,Grocery Co., 303- U. S. 552, 562.
' H. Rep. No. 669, 72nd Cong., 1st Seas., p. 8.

102

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

311 U.S.

The Norris-LaGuardia Act, passed in 1932, is the culmination of a bitter political, social and economic controversy extending over half a century. Hostility to
'government by injunction" had become the rallying slogahof many and varied groups. Indeed, as early as 1914
Congress had responded to a widespread public demand
that .the Sherman Act be amended, and had passed the
Clayton Act, itself designed to limit the jurisction of
federal courts to issue injunctions in cases involving labor
disputes. But the proponents of the Norris-LaGuardia
Act felt that the jurisdictional limitations of the' Clayton
Act had been largely nullified by judicial decision. Thus,
the Senate Judiciary Committee, reporting the NorrisLaGuardia Act, said: "That there have been abuses of
judicial power in granting injunctions in labor disputes is
hardly open to discussion. The use of the injunction in
such disputes has been growing by leaps and bounds. ....
For example, approximately 300 were issued in connection with the railway shopmen's strike of 1922, . . ."18

And on the same subject the House Judiciary Committee
said: "These are the *ame character of acts which Congress in section 20 of the Clayton Act of October 15, 1914,
sought to restrict from the operation of injunctions, but
because of the interpretations placed by the courts on this
section of the Clayton Act, the restrictions as contained
therein have become more or less valueless to labor, and
this section is intended by more specific language to overcome the qualifying effects of the decisions of the courts
in this respect." ' 7 As an example of the judicial interpretAtion of the Clayton Act which the Committee said was
"responsible in part for this agitation for further legislation," the Committee referred to the cases of Duplex
Printing Press Co. v. ,Deering, 254 U. S.443, American
Steel. Foundries v. Tri-City Central Trades Council, 257
10
11

Rep. No.'163, 72nd Cong., Ist Sess., p. 8.
H. Rep. No. 669, supra, pp. 7, 8.

DRIVERS' UNION v. LAKE VALLEY CO.
91

103

Opinion of the Court.

U. S. 184, and Bedford Cut Stone Co. v. Journeymen
Stone Cutters' Association, 274 U. S. 37. In these cases,
the jurisdiction of the courts to grant injunctions had
been upheld upon allegations and findings that the Sherman Anti-Trust Act had been violated.
Whether or not one agrees with the committees that
the cited cases constituted an unduly restricted interpretation of the Clayton Act, one must agree that the committees and the Congress made abundantly clear their
intention that what they regarded as the misinterpretation of the Clayton Act should not be repeated in the
construction of the Norris-LaGuardia Act. For us to
hold, in the face of this legislation, that the federal courts
have jurisdiction to grant injunctions in cases growing
out of labor disputes, merely because alleged violations
of the Sherman Act are involved, would run counter to
the plain mandate of the Act and would reverse the declared purpose of Congress.18 The Circuit Court of
Appeals was in error; its judgment is reversed and the
judgment of. the District Court dismissing the bill for
injunction is affirmed.
Reversed.

'For example, one of the prerequisites to any injunction under
the Act is "that the public officers charged with the duty to protect
complainant's property are unable or unwilling to furnish adequate
protection." Concerning this, the House Judiciary Committee said:
"The last provision is considered desirable, because it often happens
that complainants rush into a Federal court and obtain an injunction
the enforcement of which requires the court to consider and punish
acts which are and ought to be, under our system of government,
cognizable in the local tribunals. Our Federal courts already are
c6ngested with cases ordinarly cognizable in the local police courts,
." H. Rep. No. 669, supra, p. 9.

