OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Counsel for Parties.

311 U. S.

HELVERING, COMMISSIONER OF INTERNAL
REVENUE, v. HAMMEL ET UX.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SIXTH CIRCUIT.

No. 49.

Argued December 11, 1940.-Decided January 6, 1941.

1. A loss sustained by an individual taxpayer upon the foreclosure
sale of an interest in real estate which he had acquired for profit,
held, in computing taxable income under the Revenue Act of 1934,
deductible only to the limited extent allowed by §§ 23 (j) and 117
(d) for losses from "sales" or exchanges of capital assets, and not
in full under § 23 (6) (2). Pp. 505, 510.
2. The language, the purpose, and the legislative history of the proVisions of the Revenue Act of 1934 relating to capital gains and
losses support the view that no distinction was intended between
losses from forced sales and losses from voluntary sales of capital
assets. P. 510.
3. Courts are not free to reject the literal or usual meaning of the
words of a statute, when adoption of that meaning will not lead
to absurd results nor thwart the obvious purpose of the statute.
P. 510.
4. In this case, the foreclosure sale, and not the decree of foreclosure,
was the definitive event which established the loss within the meaning and for the purpose of the Revenue Act. P. 512.
5. The view that. the loss in this case inay not be treated as a loss
from a sale because by the state law the vendor in a land contract
may declare a forfeiture upon default, can not be sustained, since
it does not appear from the record that the contract in this case
contained a forfeiture clause, nor that there was in fact a forfelture apart from the foreclosure sale. P. 512.
108 F. 2d 753, reversed.
CERTIORARI,

310 U. S. 619, to review the affirmance of

a decision of the Board of Tax Appeals redetermining
a deficiency in income tax.

Mr. Norman D. Keller, with whom Solicitor General
Biddle, Assistant Attorney General Clark, and Mr. Sewall
Key were on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. John J. Sloan for respondent.

HELVERING v. HAMMEL.
504

505

Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTICE STONE delivered the opinion of the Court.

We are asked to say whether a loss sustained by an
individual taxpayer upon the foreclosure sale of his interest in real estate, acquired for profit, is a loss which,
under § 23 (e) (2) Of the 1934 Revenue Act, 48 Stat. 680,
may be deducted in full from gross income for the purpose of arriving at taxable income, or is a capital loss
deductible only to the limited extent provided in §§ 23 (e)
(2), (j), and 117.
Iiithe computation of taxable income § 23 (e) (2) of
the 1934 Revenue Act permits the individual taxpayer
to deduct losses sustained during the year incurred in
any transaction for profit. Subsection (j) provides that
"losses from sales or exchanges of capital assets" shall be
allowed only to the extent of $2,000 plus gains from such
sales or exchanges as provided by § 117 (d). By § 117
(b) it is declared that "capital assets" "means property
held by the taxpayer . . . but does not include stock in
trade of the taxpayer . . . or property held by the tax-

payer primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary
course of his trade or business."
Respondent taxpayers, with other members of a.syndicate, purchased "on land contract" a plot of land in Oakland County, Michigan, for the sum of $96,000, upon a
down payment of $20,000. The precise nature of 1he
contract does not appear beyond the fact that payments
for the land were to be made in installments, and the
vendor retained an interest in theland as security, for
payment of the balance of the purchase price. Before
the purchase price was paid in ftill the syndicate defaulted on its payments. The vendor instituted foreclosure 'proceedings by suit in equity in a state court
which resulted' in a judicial sale of the property, the
vendor becoming the purchaser, and in a deficiency judgment against the members of the syndicate. Respond-

506

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

311 U. S.

ents' contribution to the purchase money, some $4,000,
was lost.
The commissioner, in computing respondents' taxable
income for 1934, treated the taxpayers' interest in the
land as a capital asset and allowed deduction of the loss'
from gross income only to the extent of $2,000 as provided by §§ 23 (j) and 117 (d), in the case of losses from
sales -of capital assets. The Board of Tax Appeals ruled
that the loss was deductible in full. The circuit court
of appeals affirmed, 108 F. 2d 753, holding that the loss
established by the foreclosure sale was not a loss from a
"sale" within the meaning of § 23 (j). We granted certiorari, 310 U. S. 619, to resolve a conflict of the decision
below with that of the court of appeals for the second
circuit in Commissioner v. Electro-Chemical Engraving
Co., 110 F. 2d 614,
It is not denied that it was the foreclosure sale of
respondents' interest in the land purchased by the syn,dicate for profit, which finally liquidated the capital investment made by its members and fixed the precise
amount of the loss which responde4s seek to deduct
as, such from gross income. But they argue that the
"losses from sales" which by § 23 (j) are made deductible
only to the limited extent provided by § 117 (d) are those
losses resulting from sales voluntarily made by the taxpayer, and that losses resulting from forced sales like
the present not being subject to the limitations of § 117
(d) are deductible in full like otherlosses under § 23
(e) (2).
To read this qualification into the statute respondents
rely on judicial decisions applying the familiar rule that
a restrictive covenant against sale or assignment refers
to the voluntary action of the covenantor and not to
transfers by operation of law or judicial sales in invitum.
See Guaranty Trust Co. v. Green Cove & M. R. Co.,
139 U. S. 137; Gazlay v. Williams, 210 U. S. 41; Riggs

HELVERING v. HAMMEL.
504

Opinion of the Court.

v. Pursell, 66 N. Y. 193. But here we are not concerned
with a restrictive covenant of the taxpayer, but with a
sale as an effective means of establishing a deductible
loss for the purpose of computing his income tax. The
term sale may have many meanings, depending on the
context, see Webster's New International Dictionary.
The meaning here depends on the purpose with which
it is used in the statute and the legislative history of
that use. Hence the respondents argue that the purpose
of providing in the 1934 Act for a special treatment of
gains or losses from capital assets Was to prevent tax
avoidance by depriving the taxpayer of the option allowed to him by the earlier acts, to effect losses deductible in full by sales of property at any time within two
years after it was acquired, which until held for that
period was not defined as a capital asset, § 208 Revenue
Act of 1924, 43 Stat. 253; § 208 Revenue Act of 1926,
44 Stat. 19, and § 101 of the Revenue Act of 1928, 45
Stat. 811.
It is said that since, losses from foreclosure sales not
within the control of the taxpayer are not within the evil
aimed at by the 1934 Act, they must be deemed to be
excluded from -the reach of its language. To support
this contention respondents rely on the report of the
Ways and Means Committee submitting to the House the
bill which, with amendments not now material, became
the Revenue Act of 1934. The Committee in pointing
out a "defect" of the existing law said: "Taxpayers take
their losses within the two year period and get full benefit therefrom and delay taking gains until the two-year
period has expired, thereby reducing their taxes." H.
Rept. 704, 73d Cong., 2d Sess., pp. 9 and 10.
But the treatment of gains and losses from sales of
capital assets on a different ,basis from ordinary gains
and losses was not introduced into the revenue laws by
the 1934 Act. That had been a feature of every revenue

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

311 U. S.

law beginning with the Act of 1921, 42 Stat. 227, and each
had defined as capital losses "losses from sales or exchanges of capital assets." The 1934 Act made no change
in this respect but for the first time it provided that
"capital assets" should include all property acquired by
the taxpayer for profit regardless of the length of time
held by him and that capital gains and losses from sales
of capital assets should be recognized in the computation
of taxable income according to the length of time the
capital assets -are held by the taxpayer, varying from
100% if the capital asset is held for not more than a year
to 30% if it is held more than ten years. § 117 (a).
Finally, for the first time, the statute provided that capital losses in excess of capital gains should be deducted
from ordinary income only to the extent of $2,000. Thus
by treating all property acquired by the taxpayer for
pr6fit as capital assets and limiting the deduction of
capital losses in the manner 'indicated, the Act materially
curtailed the advantages which the taxpayer had previously been able to gain by choosing the time of selling
his property.
The definition of capital losses as losses from "sales"
of capital assets, as we have pointed out, was not new.
As will presently appear, the legislative history of this
definition shows that it was not chosen to exclude from
the capital assets provisions losses resulting from forced
sales of taxpayers' property. And, if so construed, substantial loss of revenue would result under the 1934
Act, whose purpose was to avoid loss of revenue by the
application of the capital assets provisions. In drafting
the 1934 Act the Committee had -before it proposals for
stabilizing the revenue by the adoption of the British
system under which neither capital gains nor losses enter
into the computation of the tax. In declining to follow
this system in, its entirety the Committee said: "It is.
deerned wiser to attempt a step in this direction without.

HELVERING v. HAMMEL.
504

Opinion of the Court.

letting capital gains go entirely untaxed." It accordingly
reduced the tax burden on capital gains progressively
with the increase of the period up to ten years, during
which the taxpayer holds the capital asset, and permitted
the deduction, on the same scale, of capital losses, but
only to the extent that there are taxable capital gains,
plus $2,000. In thus relieving capital gains from the tax
imposed on other types of income, it cannot be assumed,
in the absence of some clear indication to the contrary,
that Congress intended to permit deductions in full of
losses resulting from forced sales of the taxpayers' property, from either, capital gains or ordinary gross income,
while taxing only a fraction of the gains resulting from
the sales of such property. See White v. United States,
305 U. S.281, 292; Helvering v. Inter-Mountain Life Ins.
Co., 294 U. S.686, 689, 690.
The taxation of capital gains after deduction of capital
losses on a more favorable basis than other income, was
provided for by § 206 of the 1921 Revenue Act, as the
means of encouraging profit-taking sa!es of capital investments, H. Rept. Nb.350, 67th Cong., 2d Sess., p. 8. Burnet v. Harmel, 287 U. S. 103, 106. In this section, as
in later Acts, capital net gain was defined as "the excess
of the total capital gain over the sum of capital deductions ind capital losses"; capital losses being defined
as the loss resulting from the sale or exchange of capital
assets. In submitting the proposed Revenue Act of 1924,
the House committee pointed out that the 1921 Act contained no provision for limiting deduction of capital losses
where they exceeded the amount -uf capital gains. H.
Rept. No. 179, 68th Cong., 1st Sess., p. 14. This was
remedied by providing in §208 (c) that the amount by
which the tax is reduced on accouni of a capital loss shall
not exceed 12 % of the capital loss. In commenting
on this provision the Committee said, p. 20: "If the
amount by which the tax is to be increased on account
of capital gains is limited to 12 % of the capital gain

510

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

311 U. S.

it follows logically that the amount by which the tax
is reduced on account of capital losses shall be limited
to the 12 7 of the loss." This provision was continued
without changes now material until the 1934 Act. § 208
(c) in the 1924 and 1926 Acts; § 101 (b) in the 1928
and 1932 Acts, 47 Stat. 191.
Congress thus has given clear indication of a purpose
to offset capital gains by losses from the sale of like
property and upon the same percentage basis as that on
which the gains are taxed. See United States v. Pleasants, 305 U. S. 357, 360. This purpose to treat gains
and deductible losses on a parity but with a further specific provision provided by § 117 (d) of the 1934 Act,
permitting specified percentages of capital losses to be
deducted from ordinary income to the extent of $2,000,
would be defeated in a most substantial way if only a
percentage of the 'gains were taxed but losses on sales
of like property could be deducted in full from gross
income. This treatment of losses from sales of capital
assets in the 1924 and later Acts and the reason given for
adopting it afford convincing evidence that the "sales"
referred to in the statute include forced sales such as
have sufficed, under long accepted income tax practice,
to establish a deductible loss in the case of non-capital
assets. Such sales can equally be taken to establish the
loss in the case of capital, assets without infringing the
declared policy of the statute to treat capital gains and
losses on a parity.
We can find no basis in the language of the Act, its
purpose or its legislative history, for saying that losses
from sales of capital assets under the 1934 Act, more than
its predetcessors, were tq be treated any differently
whether they resulted, from forced sales or voluntary
sales. True, courts in the interpretation of a statute
have some scope for adopting a restricted rather than a
literal or usual meaning of its words where acceptance
of that meaning would lead to absurd results, United

HELVERING v. HAMMEL.
504

Opinion of the Court.

States v. Katz, 271 U. S. 354, 362, or would thwart the

obvious purpose of the statute, Haggar Co. v. Helvering,
308 U. S. 389. But courts are not free to reject that
meaning where no such consequences follow and where,
as here, it appears to be. consonant with the purposes of
the Act as declared by Congress and plainly disclosed by
its structure.
It is not without significance that Congress, in the 1934
Act, enlarged thescope of its provisions relating to losses
from sales of capital assets by including within them
losses upon the disposition of the taxpayer's property by
methods other than sale and without reference to the
voluntary action of the taxpayer. It .thus treats as losses
from sales or exchanges the loss sustained from redemption of stock, § 115 (c), retirement of bonds, § 117 (f),
losses from short sales, § 117 (e) (1), and loss sustained
by failure of the holder of an option *to exercise it, § 117
(e) (2), although none of these transactions involves a
loss from a sale. See McClain v. Commissioner, post,
p. 527.
The scope of the capital loss provisions was still further enlarged by § 23 (k) (2) of the Revenue Act of
1938, 52 Stat. 447, which provides that if securities, which
are capital assets, are ascertained to be worthless and are
charged off within the taxable yeai the loss, with an exception not now material, shall be considered as a loss
arising from a sale or exchange. These provisions disclose a consistent legislative policy to enlarge the class
of deductible losses made subject to the capital assets
provisions without regard to the voluntary action of the
taxpayer in producing them. We could hardly suppose
that Congress would not have made provision for the
like treatment of losses resulting from a forced. sale of
the taxpayer's property acquired for profit either in the
1934.or 1938 Act, if it had thought' that the term "sales
or exchanges" as used in both acts did not include such
sales of the taxpayer's property.

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

311 U. S.

Respondents also advance the argument, sustained in
Commissioner v. Freihofer, 102 F. 2d 787, that the definitive event fixing respondents' loss was not the foreclosure sale but the decree of foreclosure which ordered
the sale and preceded it. But since the foreclosure contemplated by the decree was foreclosure by sale and the
foreclosed property had value which was conclusively
established by the sale for the purposes of the foreclosure proceeding, the sale was the definitive event establishing the loss within the meaning and for the purpose of the revenue laws. They are designed for application to the practical affairs of men. The sale, which
finally cuts off the interest of the mortgagor and is the
means for deterrnining the amount of the deficiency
judgment against him, is a means adopted by the statute
for determining the amount of his capital gain or loss
from the sale of the mortgaged property.
The court below also thought that the loss suffered by
respondents could not be treated as a -loss from a sale
since by the law of Michigan the vendor upon a landcontract containing the usual forfeiture clause had the
right to deprive respondents and their joint adventurers
of all interest in the property by a declaration of forfeiture, and that the only additional advantage of foreclosure was to obtain a deficiency judgment. But there is
nothing in this record to show that the land contract in
this case contained a forfeiture clause. Even if it did,
it does not appear that there was in fact a forfeiture apart
from the sale on foreclosure. Cf. Davidson v. Commissioner, 305 U. S. 44, 46; Helvering v. Midland Insurance
Co., 300 U. S. 216, 224; United States v. Phellis,,257 U. S.
156, 172.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTiCE ROBERTS is of opinion that the judgment

should be affirmed for the reasons stated in the opinion
of the Circuit Court of Appeals, 108 F. 2d 753.

