544

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Syllabus.

PALMER

311 U. S.

TRUSTEES, v. CONNECTICUT
RAILWAY & LIGHTING CO.

ET AL.,

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 38. Argued November 15, 1940.-Decided January 6, 1941.
1. In a railroad reorganization under § 77 of the Bankruptcy -Act,
upon rejection by the trustees of a 999-year lease of street railway
'properties having 969 years to run, the measure of the lessor's
damages is the present value of the rent reserved less the present
rental value of the remainder of the term. Connecticut Railwy &
Lighting Co. v. Palmer, 305 U. S. 493, 504. P. 555.
2. In applying this rule to so long a lease, since the evidence of damages is necessarily limited to a period of definite forecast., the damage may be estimated for a limited future period upon evidence
of rental value derived from a period of past operation of the
leased property. P. 555.
There being no suggestion that the rental agreed upon was other
than a reasonable return upon the value of the demised property,
fairly negotiated, it is fair to presume, until something else is
shown, that for the long years ahead the rent and rental value are
the same. Consequently, proof of rental value smaller in amount
than the rent reserved, for a term of years shorter than the
remainder of the lease, is, in the absence of evidence as to other
years,. proof of the damage in such shorter period. P. 557.
3. Opinion evidence of rental value may be considered in determining the lessor's damages, but has little, if any, probative force
beyond the immediate years and can not be permitted to fix
rental value for the purpose of determining damages in the indefinite future. P. 556.
4. Upon evidence of past earnings of demised street car properties
over a period of fourteen years, including three years of operation
by the lessor after rejection of. the lease, the Circuit Court of
Appeals, reversing the District Court, estimated the probable
earnings for eleven years succeeding the rejection, upon the basis
of which, and of the rent reserved for that period, it found and
awarded damages to the lessor. :.ield:
(1) There being, no dispute over the facts proven, the s.officiency
of the proof of damage was for the Court of6Appeals. P. 558.

PALMER v. CONNECTICUT RY. CO.
544

Argument for Petitioners.

(2) This Court, on this review, deals with the method of
proving damages, not the measure. P. 558.
(3) The evidence' formed an adequate basis for a reasoned
judgment and justified an award. P. 558.
(4) Although the business' changed from trolley to bus transportation within two years of the end of the base period, and
management changed from lessee to lessor, in view of the established
character of the business these changes were not sufficient to
affect the probative value of past experience. P. 559.
(5) Nothing ismore indikative of the value of franchises and
properties of street railways and bus lines, for lease or sale, than.
past earnings. P. 560.
(6) In proving compensatory damages, certainty in the fact
of damage is essential; certainty as to the amount goes no further
than to require a basis for a reasoned conclusion; the injured
party is not to be barred from a fair recovery by impossible
requirements. P. 560.
(7) The failure'of the lessor to produce further evidence, through
experts or transportation surveys, was not fatal to its case. P. 561.
109 F. 2d 568, affirmed.

CERTIORARI, 309 U. S. 653, to review'a judgment reversing an order of the District Court and awarding damages
to the present respondent for rejection of its lease in a
railroad reorganization case.
Mr. James Garfield, with whom Mr. Hermon J. Wells
was on the brief, fo r petitioners.
Respondent's right to recover damages for the rejection
of the lease depends upon 'whether it will be injured by
the destruction of the entire remainder of the term. It
can not waive, nor can the courts waive for it, the latter
part of the term. It could not recover for a loss in the
early part of the term without proving that there would
be no offset to that loss during the later part.
To decide on the basis of an initial loss and disregard
the later portion of the term is equivalent to finding
that the rental value of the property -will not during that
period equal the rent. Such a finding can not be-made
276055-41-35

.546

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Argument for Petitioners.

311 U. S.

without proof. To say that proof may be dispensed with
because it is too difficult is either to say that the court
•may remake the contract for the parties by shortening
the term of the lease or that the burden of proof shifts
when it becomes too heavy to bear. Neither, we submit,
is true.
The landlord can, therefore, recover only if he has been
injured .though losing the difference between rent and
rental value for the entire remainder of term for which
he bargained. Citing: This case,305 U.S. 504, 505; City
Bank Co. v. Irving Trust Co., 299 U. S. 433, 443; Pennsylvania'Steel Co' v. New York City Railway Co., 198 F.
721, 759.
The universal rule is that damages for loss of future
rent will not be awarded for part of the unexpired term
without proof of damage for the whole term.' Pennsyl*vanii Steel Co. v. New York City Railway Co., supra;
7n.re Wise Shoes; Inc., 64 F. 2d 1023. Cf. P 66ple ex rel.
Nelson v. West Town State Bank, 299 Ill. App: 242; 373
Ill. 106.
As the mind of the trial judge was not satisfied by the
evidence of damage, the appellate court should not have
awarded damages on the basis of that evidence.
The general purpose of the chang6 in the staiute was
to protect the other creditors in a reorganization from
disproportionate awards to those who, like landlords or
other executory contractors, receive back their property.
Kuehner v. Irving Trust Co., 299 U. S. 445, 454.
The word "actual" clearly imports that because of
the danger that speculative elements might enter into
the. otherwise unlimited determination of. a landlord's
namages, Congress intended to prescribe a requirement
that sugh damages must be proved in such fashion as
to satisfy the court that they would certainly be suffered.
If any doubt existed they could not be allowed.' Therefore, if the trial judge's mindwas not satisfied, his finding

,PALMER v. CONNECTICUT RY. CO.
544

Argument for Petitioners.

that the evidence was insufficient should be given the
weight and significance which attach to a finding of fact
by a jury or by an administrative tribunal and should not
be reversed except for- an error of law.
The evidence does not show damages to reasonable
certainty. The only evidence contained in the record
which could conceivably throw any light on the subject
of rental value consists of the past earnings, actual or
estimated, of the leased property, its book value before
rejection, the statement that the demised trolley properties were in part converted to buses prior to repossession
in November, 1936, and wholly so converted shortly
thereafter, and the value on December 31, 1938, of the
property then belonging to the respondent.
No evidence was offered of the character of the territory
served or the existence or possibility of competitive transportation agencies therein, nor of developments or trends
or prospects in the art, or in that territory. There was
no testimony as to what future developments might be
expected or how they would affect the character, volume
or profitableness of respondent's enterprise.
Even as to "the past" respondent's showing was limited to the earnings and estimated earnings of the property averaged for five different periods all of them ending
with December 31, 1938, and none of them extending
further back than 1924. These averages were then projected for 37 years into the future after making certain
additions to prospective earnings on the basis of this
Court's ruling that the sinking funds which came into
respondent's possession on termination of the lease would
increase the earning power of the property,
A period which does not include even one complete
economic cycle can not"be considered a reliable'base for
forecasting ven so small a part of the remainder of the
term as the next eight years.

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Argument for Respondent.

311 U. S.

The record contains no evidence as to whether conditions in the industry or the territory are now, or are
likely to be,. similar to those during the past fourteen
years.
From the record, all that the appellate judges could
have known of the character of the property was simply
that it was trolleys which were gradually being converted into buses. Of the territory served, they had, of
course, the familiarity of well-informed citizens. Of the
history of operations, they had nothing except net earnings. Of the general economic conditions, again, they
had no more than the knowledge of any well-informed
persons, for they were offered nothing else.
The value base which the respondent used is not tenable. It was an appraisal of the properties after they
had been in the control of the respondent for over two
years and after a substantial part of them had been
abandoned and all had been converted from trolleys into
buses.
The record is devoid of findings on another element
necessary to the determination of damages, viz.; the
amount to be added to post-rejection earnings on account of respondent's acquisition of the sinking funds
on the termination of the lease. So far as appears, the
court did not consider the earnings history of the leased
properties prior to 1925, when the proportion of depression to prosperity was very much less than during the
fourteen subsequent years. It erred in failing to take
into account all of the elements which should have gone
into a computation of damages.
Mr. George W. Martin for respondent.
The formula laid down by this Court for calculating
the amount of the landlord's claim for the loss of his
lease is that the damages are "the difference between
the rental value of the remainder of the term and the

PALMER v. CONNECTICUT RY. CO.

551

Opinion of the Court.

544

This was the net value of the lease at the time it
was destroyed by rejection. It is not the result of the
application .of a precise mathematical formula for a limited number of years, and.the ignoring of a subsequent
vast period of time. It is'a conclusion that the'subsequent vast period of time is not an element which can
enter into the present net value of the lease. This subsequent time has been weighed and found to be
Incommensurable with reasonable certainty. See A. L. I.
Restatement of Contracts, § 331 (a); Hedrick v. Perry,
102.F. 2d 802, 807; Sheldon v. Metro-Goldwyn Pictures
Corp., 106 F. 2d 45, 51; affd., 309 U. S. 390; Eastman
Kodak Co. v. Southern Photo Materials Co., 273 U. S.
359; Sinclair Refining Co. v. Jenkins Petroleum Process
Co., 289 U. S. 689, 697; Pieczonka v. Pullman Co., 102 F.
:2d 432, 434.
By leave of Court, Messrs. Robert G. Dodge and Talcott M. Banks, Jr. filed a brief on behalf of the Trustees
of the property of Old Colony Railroad Company, as
•amici curiae, urging reversal.
MR. JusTIcE REED delivered the opinion of the Court.
This certiorari, which we allowed because of its importance, involves problems of proving a lessor's: claim
for damages for rejection of its lease in a proceeding
under § 77 of the Bankruptcy Act. The lease, demising
respondent's street railway propirties and equipment in
Connecticut for 999 years from 1906, was rejected on
December 18, 1935, by petitioners, the trustees of the
debtor, the New York, New Haven and Hartford Railroad Company.' The annual rent reserved at rejection
was close to $1,050,000 with tax, sinking fund, interest
1

The lease originally covered additional prpperties, but as to these

the debtor no longer had an interest.

552

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

311 U. S.

and-bond retirement.adjustments, which are not material
to our discussion.
After rejection 'the lessor filed a claim for damages,,
under subsection (b) of § 77. The applicable provisions
are as follows:
In case an executory .contract or unexpired
lease of property shall be rejected, . . . any person injured by -such . . . rejection shall for all purposes. of

this section be deemed to be a creditor of the debtor to
the extent of the actual damage or injury determined in
accordance with principles obtaining in equity proceedings. .

....

The claim was allowed, limited to the damages accrued
or which might accrue before the winding up of the reorganization. This Court on a previous certiorari 2 disapproved that measure of damages and laid down as the
measure "the present value of the rent reserved less the
present rental value of the remainder of the term." On
remand to the district court,' the lessor undertook to
prove damages according to the approved measure by
introducing evidence of the present value (January 1,
1936), at four per cent discount, of the rent reserved
undef the lease for forty years only (to December 31,
1975). This amounted to around twenty million dollars.
For a corresponding period'evidence of rental value similarly discounted was offered. The difference was submitted as the damages for rejection. No proof of rent
reserved or rental value beyond the forty years was
offered as respondent was advised such proof would be.
too uncertain to carry onviction.
To prove rental value, respondent offered evidence of
annual earnings for each of the forty years; These earnings were made up of the earning power of a sinking
fund, plus an adjustment of the annual payments re'Cnnecticut Railway & Lighting Co. v. Palmer, 305 U. S.. 493, 504.

PALMER v. CONNECTICUT RY. CO.
544

Argument for Respondent.

rent reserved, both discounted to present worth." City
Bank Co. v. Irving Trust Co., 299 U. S. 433, 443;
Kuehner v. Irving Trust Co., 299 U. S. 445, 450;, Connecticut Ry. Co. v. Palmer,305 U. S. 493, 504.
The Court has stated this rule of damages as though
it were a mathematical formula for ascertaining an answer in dollars; but of course, in addition, it is a recognized method of ascertaining the value to the landlord'
of the lost lease at the time of its rejection. Because,
what the landlord loses is his lease, and the damages
are merely the net value of the lease.
The District Court considered that the formula was
a mathematical prescription, which must be worked out
from rent day to rent day all through the balance of
the term of a lease in order to make sure that in no
.rent period; or in no series of rent periods, sufficient net
avails should be realized from the property to recoup
or even to exceed the amount of the lost rentals. The
factor which causes the difficulty in the application of
the formula in such a way is not the amount of the
reserved rent and its present value discounted, but the
amount of the rental value presumably based on the
future net operating income from the property. In a
situation like this, where the lease has no market value
whatever, the formula for ascertaining the value of the
be applied; but it must be applied in such
lease
a waymust
that "the
damage will be based on evidence which
satisfies the mind." 305'U.. S. 505.
What this means isthat when the evidence as to future
ren'tal value of the property attempts to cover so long
a span of time into the future that, to the mind of the
ordinary man, no conviction is Carried that the conclusion which is going to be reached is not just pure speculation, then a point is arrived at where "reasonable certainty" disappears and prospective losses beyond that
point can no longer be recovered. All this is merely

550

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Argument for Respondent.

311 U. S.

the
application of "the usual rules as to the measure
of damages."
Williston on Contracts (Rev. Ed.),
§ 1346; Hetzel v. Baltimore & Ohio R. Co., 169 U. S.
26, 28.
.Obviously, it was not the intention of this Court in
Connecticut Raikvay Co. v. Palmer, 305 U. S. 493, to
lay down a novel rule of damages--an all-or-nothing
rule which required that each unit of time over the remainder of a term of 900 years should be accounted for
as a period of a loss to the landlord. It was evident on
the previous appeal that this Court considered the far
future as unpredictable.
If this Court had intended to lay down an all-ornothing rule, it would have dismissed the previous appeal.
305 U. S. 493.
When this Court reversed on the last appeal, it did
not reverse on the ground that the appellant had re'ceived too much, but too little; and, when the claim was
sent back for. a new trial before the District Court, the
opinion of this Court was to be constriied, not as laying
down a novel rule of damages, but as a caution against
an award of damages on anything like a 969-year basis.
The reason is plain: no ordinarily prudent man could
possibly estimate the value of the lost lease as of the
time of rejection on any such basis, but this does not
mean fhat the lease hasiiot a present value, nor that
that value can not be ascertained by the application of
the formula to data which are reasonably certain, so
far as any one can see, to be true and applicable; and
the .Court of Appeals, applying this common-sense interpretation of this Court's opinion, came to the conclusion
that reasonable certainty was attained by allowing the
respondent damages for eleven years subsequent to rejection of the lease, i.e., three years prior to the trial
in the District Court for which the damages are fully
known, and eight years for which damages are estimated
according to past experience for fourteen years.

PALMER v. CONNECTICUT RY. CO.
544

553

Opinion of the Court.

quired by the lease to be made to the sinking fund, plus
the operating profits of the transportation properties.
For 1936-1938 the actual earnings were used' This was
the period after rejection and before trial when. the demised, properties were operated by or for respondent.
For 1939-1975 earnings were estimated by alternative
calculations of average annual earnings, before federal
taxes, over four prior base periods each ending December
31, 1938: (1) the preceding year and d. half of 100% bus

operation; (2) the three years of actual operation, following rejection, during which the transition from trolleys
to buses had been completed ; (3) ten years, 1929-1939,
the accotnts for which were partly reconstructed because
before the reorganization the demised premises were utilized in conjunction with others not involved here; and,
finally, (4) fourteen years, 1925-1938.' The earning
power of the sums in the sinking fund and the annual
.payments to it were assumed to be fixed. To get the
rental value, these two fixed sums were added to the
operating profit calculated. from each of the four base
periods. Since earnings were erratic, varying from $78,000 to $775,000 in the fourteenyear period, the annual
rental value for the future varied according to-the base
used. Likewise, the damages calculated for forty years
showed a range of from nine and a half to thirteen 'and
a third million. It is substantially correct to say that
no evidence in disagreement with the base figures was
produced for the petitioner. Nor did petitioner introduce any evidence on its part to establish a different
amount of damages.
The district court refused to find future earnings by
projecting the average earnings of any of the four base
'To fill out-the data petitioner calculated the proportionate rent
reserved and the actual .a'mings for the short .period between the
date ,of rejection, December 17, 1935, and January 1, 1936.

554

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

311 U. S.

periods. It pointed out that in its view the 100% bus
operation was too new and had coincided with too great
a shrinkage of earnings to serve as a safe guide. The
data for 193671938 were deemed unconvincing because
they were derived in a substantial measure from trolley
operations, now abandoned, and because the period was
one of economic depression. The ten and the fourteenyear bases were disapproved as irrelevant because of trolley operation; and as speculative because of the impossibility of forecasting the relative frequency of profitable
and unprofitable years from this past experience. The
court pointed out that no eiidence, of transportation
experts or surveys. was offered to assist it ,in appraising
possibilities of the development of the territory, of increased operating efficiency or the effects of consolidation.' Furthermore' the trial court was of the view that
even with acceptable proof of annual rental value for
forty years, or other period materially shorter than the
unexpired term qf the lease, no conclusion could be
reached as to the present rental value of the remainder
of ihe term, because that portion of the term beyond
the reach of the proof offered might have profits or losses
which would upset'the calculations for earlier years. The
district court then struck out the accrued damages of
more than a million dollars allowed on the former hearing and set aside the provision of the same order permitting accrued damages to be proven- up to the date of
final hearing.
The circuit court of appeals was of the view that "in
effect, the law for purposes of damages treats a lease with
969 more years to run as if it were only for a term within
the reach of fairly definite forecast." 109 F. 2d 568, 571.
It thought that the evidexice of earnings over the four'See another New Haven long term "lese,In re New York, N. H.
& H. R. Co., 30 F. Supp. 541, whereevidence of this kind appears.

PALMER v. CONNECTICUT RY. CO.
544

Opinion of the Court.

teen-year experience was adequate to enable it to draw
a reasoned conclusion as to probable earnings for eleven
years. For the three years, 1936-1938, these were known;
for the other eight years, the average annual earnings
for the preceding 14-year period were adopted. An allowance of the damages at time of rejection was made in
theamount of $4,411,837.61.'
The certiorari brings here the questions of whether
proof of damages for a portion of an unexpired lease is
sufficient to fix damages for the whole remaining term
and whether the circuit court of appeals may allow damages on the sole basis of past earnings, evidence which.
the district judge has held does not satisfy his mind.
First. Litigation over a 999-year lease naturally brings
up incidents difficult to reconcile with known and established legal formulae. Since conveyancers and business
men alike have long utilized the characteristic provisions
of leases to accomplish transfers of rights in real estate
for extensive periods without payment of the purchase
price, such long term agreements have become a well recognized legal implement, especially in corporate realty
transactions and railroad consolidations and mergers.
Its reservations of rent, provisions for taxes and operation are firmly embedded 'in our financial, corporate and
title Structures." Business and government alike are acThe preciseness of this figure as to the amount of damage is illusory. It is obtained by accepting estimated interest rate and averag6
earnings for eight years in the future, reduced to present cash value;
as shown by respondent on a table covering forty years and ddduoting'this from the agreed rent, discounted.
' Nearly forty thousand miles of road are leased by Class I railroads from 292 lessors. Class I roads operate over 93 per cent of all
railroad mileage. Leased property represents over 15 per cent of
this total. Over four billion dollars is invested in railroad property
under lease. Tables 1, 129, 156 and 162. Statistics of Railways in
the United States 1938. See Meck & Masten, Railroad Leases and
Reorganization, 49 Yale Law Journal 626.

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

311 U. S.

customed to fix the rental value of property for long term
leases and the value of the lease over and above the rent
reserved at varying periods of the term.7 In pending
railroad reorganizations, themselves, appraisals of rental
values 'must be considered.' That such :determinations
recur with some frequency demonstrates their practical
possibility.
The petitioner contends, however, that evidence of
rental valud for a 40-year period, no matter how certain
it may be, is inadequate to enable a court to establish
the damages for the entire 969 remaining years. Its
argument is that one cannot be sure the. truncated portion will not show sufficient gain to absorb all losses.
Since certain proof for distant years cannot be produced,
this objection leaves the lessor to qualified opinion evidence as to annual rental value, discounted for the term
to show present damage. Such an opinion necessarily
'Tax Cases: In many tax cases long-term leases have been valued,
though frequently without any statement of the evidence or method
used. ,Northern Hotel Co., 3 B. T. A. 1099, 1102; Newman Theatre
Co., 4 B. T.'A. 390; L. S. Donaldson Co., 12 B. T. A. 271; A. H.
Woods .Theatre Co., 12 B. T. A. 827; Consolidated Investment Co.,
13 B. T. A. 1252; Hotel Wisconsin Realty Co., 16 B. T. A. 334;
James Bldg. Ca., 22 B. T. A. 658; Martha Realty Co., 22 B. T. A.
342, 344; New York ex rel. Delaware & Hudson Canal Co. v. Feitner,
61 App. Div. 129; 70 N. Y. S. 500; Appeal Tax Court v. Western
Maryland R. Co., 50 Md. 274, 298; Philadelphia, W. & B. R. Co. v.
Appeal Tax Court 50 Md. 397; New York ex rel. Gorham Mfg. Co.
v. State Tax Comin'n, 197 App. Div. 852; 189 N. Y. S. 241. Eminent
Domain Cases: Matter of the City of New York: Beers v. Schlessinger, 120 App. Div. 700; 105 N. Y. S. 779; In re Park Site, 247
Mich. 1; 225 N. W. 498. Contract Cases: Bondy v; Harvey, 218
App. Div. 126; 217 N. Y. S. 877; Williams v. Burrell, 1 C. B. 402.
8
E. g. New York, New Haven & Hartford Railroad Company' Reorganization, 239 I. C. C. 337, 351, 386, 387, 389, 453; In re Chicago;
Milwaukee, St. Paul & Pacific R. Co., 36 F. Supp. 193, 205 et seq.;
same, 239 1.C. C. 485, 537, 553; Erie 'Railroad Company Reorganization, 239 I. C. C. 653, 685, 689.

PALMER v. CONNECTICUT RY. CO.
544

557

Opinion of the Court.

proceeds from presumably adequate knowledge of what
lessees, desiring but not requiring the facilities, would be
willing to pay for a new lease and lessors, in a similar
attitude toward renting, to accept for the remainder of
the term. While such evidence is admissible for consideration in forming a judgment upon damages, it has little,
if any, probative force beyond the immediate years.
Certainly such opinion evidence alone cannot be permitted to fix rental value for purposes of damages in the
indefinite future. The final objective of the proof is not
how much the remainder is worth now but what damages
the lessor has suffered. For this he is awarded compensation. The measure of that damage is rent less rental
value, a matter of judgment to be reached in the light of
.pleading and proof supplemented by judicial knowledge.
The law for purposes of damages does not treat a
broken lease of a thousand years as though it rap only for
a limited time, the damages for which are measurable.
But since evidence of the damage is necessarily limited
to a time of "definite forecasts" the rule of rental value
permits the use of data for only a limited number of,
years to determine damages. The number of years to be
considered depends upon the fullness and quality of the
evidence offered to establish the damages. Hence,
whether a limited term beyond the reach of forecasts or
the whole term is to be used as a base for rental value,
the evidence of earnings would be projected the. same'
number of years. This, we think, is what was meant by
the. circuit court of appeals when it treated the lease "in
effect" as one with a term within the range of predictability as to rental value.
However nebulous the concept of a long lease may be,
it is not a fiction but an actual instrument. Nothing
appears in the record to suggest that the rental agreed
upon was other than a reasonable return upon the value
,of the demised property, fairly negotiated. At the time

558

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

311 U. S.

the lease was executed, it is fair to assume the parties
thought the annual rent reserved and rental value were
the same. Without proof to the contrary only nominal
damages would be allowed the claimant. And, until
something else is shown, courts are entirely justified in
assuming that for the long years ahead the rent and the
rental value are the same.' As a consequence, evidence
of rental value smaller in amount than the rent reserved
for a term shorter than the remainder of the lease is, in
the absence of testimony as to other years, proof of the
damages for the years-covered. Since the presumption is
that the rent and renal value for the remainder of the
term are the same, the damage proven is to be considered
as all the damage for the rejection of the lease.
Second. The petitioner also contends that the circuit
court of appeals erred in setting aside the district court's
decree refusing the claim on the ground that the evidence,
detailed above, did not satisfy the mind as to the amount
of damages. In the view of the trial court, there was a
failure of proof. The correctness of the judgment of the
appellate court in directing an allowance of the claim.
depends not upon its power, which we think is clear, 0
but upon its conclusion as to the persuasive character of
the evidence, whether it is too speculative, whether' it
showed the damage to reasonable certainty. As there was
no significant dispute over the facts proven, the conclusion
S.
as to the sufficiency of the evidence was for the reviewing
court: We deal, in this review, with the method of the
proof of damages, not the measure. Narrowed even more,
the issue is whether the evidence offered justifies an award,
whether the quantum of proof produced forms an adequate
basis for a reasoned judgment.
'2 Sedgwick, Damages, 9th Ed., § 610:
" Cf. Ridings v. Johnson, 128 U. S. 212, 218; United States v. Rio
Grande Irrigation Co., 184 U. S. 416, 423.

PALMER v. CONNECTICUT RY. CO.
544

559

Opinion of the Oourt.

Future rental value cannot be susceptible of precise
proof. As it depends, so far as the amount of damages
for breach of a lease is concerned, upon future profits, it
partakes of the nature of loss of earning capacity or of.
To require proof of rental value approaching
mathematical certituide woald bar a recovery for an actual
injury suffered. All that can be done is to place before
the court such facts and circumstances as are available
to enable an estimate to be made based upon judgment
and not guesswork. 11 Every anticipatory breach of an
obligation, and every appraisal of -iamage involving the
present value of property involves a prediction asto

Ncredit.

what will occur in the future. Present market value of.
property is but the resultant of. the prediction of many
minds as to the usability of property and probable financial returns from that use, projected into the futureas
far as reasonable, intelligent men can foresee the future.
The proof of future profits by the evidence .of past
profits in an established business gives a reasonable basis
for a conclusion. 2 It is true that this business changed
from trolley to bus within two years of the end of the
base period ind that management changed from lessee to
'Story Parchment Co. v. Paterson Co., 282 U. S. 555, 563; Eastman Kodak Co. v. Southern Photo Co., 273 U. S. 459, 379; Eckington & S. H. Ry. Co. v. McDevitt, 191 U. S. 103, 112, 113; cf. dicta
in United States v; Behan, 110 U. S. 338, 344; see Restatement 9f
Contracts, § 331, particularly comment (a); United States Trust Co.
.v. O'Brien, 143 N. Y. 284, .290; 38 N. E. 266; Ball v. Pardy Con'struction Co., 108 Conn. 549, 551; 143 A. 855; Commonwealth Trust
Co. v. Hachmeister Lind Co., 320 Pa. 233; 181 A. 787; 1 Sedgwick, '
Damages, 9th Ed., § 170 (a) et seq.; I Sutherland, -Daniages, 4th

Ed., § 67.
N5 Wiliston, Cqntracts, Rev. Ed. § 1346 A; Bagley v. Snith, 10N. Y. 489, 498; Dickinson v. Hart, 142 N. Y. 183, 188; 36 N. E. 801;
Macan v. Scandinavia Belting Co., 264 Pa. 384, 392; 107 A. 750;
Commonwealth Trust Co. V. Hachmeister Lind Co., 320 Pa. 233, 242;

181 A. 787.

OCTOBER TERM, 1940,

560

Opinion of the Court.

311 U. S.

lessor but we think the fact of transportation in the same
communities for more than a quarter of a century sufficed
to give the operation the classification of an established
business. Here different methods of operation or normal
changes iu the executive staffs do not seem sufficient to
interfere with the probative value of past experience.
Franchises and property of street railways and bus lines
are difficult of appraisal. Nothing is more indicative of
their value for lease or sale of the fee than past earnings.
If we were to adopt the view that the interest conveyed
is a defeasible fee,13 its defeasance dependent upon a con-

dition such as nonpayment of annual instalments of the
purchase price, the same difficulties exist. The unknown
subtrahend would be the present value, instead of the
rental value. Evidence of value would be made up of
the items of proof. One of the most important of these,
in the case of property such as here involved, would be
past earnings.
This Court has sustained recoveries for future profits
over four years based solely upon evidence of the profits
of an established business for the past four years. We
there approved an instruction which told the jury, "Damages are not rendered uncertain because they cannot be
calculated with absolute exactness. It is sufficient if a
reasonable basis of computation is afforded, although the
result be only approximate." 14
The ways compensatory damages may be proven are
many. The' injured party is not to be barred from a
fair recovery by impossible requirements. The wrongdoer should not be mulcted, neither should he be permitted to escape under cover of a demand for nonexistent
-",)ve Camp Meeting- Assn. v. Reeves, 79 N. J. L. 334,

33o,

.782.

"Eastman Kodak Co. v. Southern Photo Co., 273 U. S. 359, 379.

PALMER v. CONNECTICUT RY. CO.
544-

Opinion of the Court.

certainty.
Damages for breach of the lease were in
contemplation of the parties when the contract was
made."8 The lease contained a covenant of reentry without prejudice to right of action for arrears of rent or
breach of covenants. The provision in the Bankruptcy
Act gives a new right of recovery in bankruptcy only.
This right of recovery is an unsecured claim of the character of a claim for a deficiency above the value of inadequate collateral.
Certainty ifn the fact of damage is essential. Certainty
as to the amount goes no further than to require a basis
for a reasoned conclusion.'
The certainty of the evidence as to damages for rejection of a lease depends upon
the same tests as in other situations where damages are
difficult of proof. This Court, recently, in an infringement case 18 was required to appraise the value of opinion
evidence as to the part of profits attributable to the use
of a pirated play, an obviously elusive fact. No expert
thought any greater percentage than ten should be attributed to the play. The lower court allowed twenty
so that the award might by no possibility be too small.
We approved because "what is required is not mathe*matical exactness but only a reasonable approximation.
That, after all, is a matter of judgment . . .
Satisfactory evidence was presented for the three years
of actual operation of the properties covered by this lease.
We think that' prior earnings of the same property over
fourteen years was a fair base to use to project the
estimate of the earnings for the eight years of future
"Story Parchment Co. v. Paterson Co., 282 U. S. 555, 564, 565;
Eastman Kodak Co. v. Southern Photo Co., 273 U. S. 359, 379;
Hetzel v. Baltimore & Ohio R. Co., 169 U. S. 26, 37, 38.
"Hadley v. Baxendale, 9 Exch. 341.
,Story Parchment Co. v. Paterson Co., 282 U. S. 555, 562, 563; 1
Sedgwick, Damages, 9th Ed., "§ 170; United States Trust Co. v.
O'Brien, 143 N. Y. 284, 289; 38 N. E. 266.
Sheldon v. Metro-Goldwyn Corp., 309 U. S.. 390, 406-408.
276055--41-36

562

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

311 U. S.

operation. The failure to produce further evidence,
either through experts or transportation surveys, was not
fatal to respondent's case, even though such evidence is
admissible. We see no reason to disagree with the conclusion of the circuit court of appeals that under the
evidence presented the damages for eight years might
be predicted with a "fair degree of certainty."
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTIcE

FRANKFURTER,

dissenting:

On January 3, 1939, this Court unanimously decided
that the "actual damage or injury" caused the lessor
through the disaffirmance by the trustees of the New
Haven of the lease now in controversy was a provable
claim. Connecticut Ry. v. Palmer, 305 U. S. 493. If
Congress had intended to rule out the legal provability
of a claim for damages arising through the disaffirmance
of what remains of a 999-year lease it could easily have
done so, instead of providing for proof of the damages
flowing from the termination of such an unexpired lease.
And if, upon the prior consideration of the status of this
very lease, this Court had intended to rule that loss due
to the disaffirmance of the unexpired term of 969 years is
in the nature of things beyond rational proof, it surely
would not have taken twelve pages to avoid saying so.
Both Congress and this Court have thus sponsored the
conviction that proof of some damage is not outside the
adjudicatory process.
But what is to be assessed is the value of a terminated
long-term lease and not the value of an included shortterm. Therefore, neither the decision of the district
court nor that of the circuit court of appeals in reversing
it seems to me satisfactory. Although the two courts
reached contradictory conclusions, their views appear to
suffer from the same intrinsic vice. Starting with man's
inability to pierce into a future of 969 years, both courts

PALMER v. CONNECTICUT RY. CO.
544

DouoLS, J., dissenting.

deemed the present value of a lefse running for such a
period beyond calculable forecast. Therefore, Judge
Hincks said in effect, when an end is put to the benefits
accruing from such a lease, the loss to the lessor cannot
be translated into dollars and cents. Judge Patterson,
on the other hand, treated the lease as though it were a
lease for an ascertainable, included short term, and
deemed eleven years as the limit for sure judgment.
Since the lease is not a short-term lease, it is, according
to the district court, nothing for purpose of giving rise to
damages. Since the lease is for too long a term, we
will snip off an included short term as though it
were a short-term" lease, concluded the circuit court of
appeals.
Both these dispositions result in avoidance, through
over-simplification, of an extremely complicated problem which Congress has put up to the courts. Since
neither the district court nor the circuit court of. appeals applied the directions of this Court in Connecticut
Ry. v. Palmer, supra, however difficult and subtle they
may have been, neither disposition should stand. The
case should, be sent back to the district court where an
opportunity should be given to make proofs appropriate
to the nature of the problem to be solved, namely, ascertainment on a tough business basis of the damage that
sprang into existence from the disaffirmance of the remaining 969-year term rather than from the disaffirmance
of a supposed 11-year lease.
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS,

dissenting:

MR.JUSTICE BLAcK and I are of the view that respondent's proof was wholly inadequate to establish under
§ 77 (b) of the Bankruptcy Act the extent of its "actual
damage or injury" as a result of the rejection of thi lease,
since the evidence offered failed to show what was "the
present value of the rent reserved less the present rental

564

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
DouGLs, J., dissenting.

311 U. S.

value of the remainder of the term"-the measure of
damages established for this very claim in Connecticut
Railway & Lighting Co. v. Palmer, 305 U. S. 493, 504.
We are dealing here with an unexpired term of 969
years. But the claim allowed is for a term which does
not cover that span. It covers only an unexpired term
of 11 years.. For the reasons stated in Kuehner v. Irving
Trust Co., 299 U. S. 445, we think that if Congress had
provided in § 77 that lessors should not be allowed to
prove for damages in excess of an 11 year unexpired term,
the limitation would be constitutional. Such legislation
would have a firm constitutional basis in the bankruptcy
power. But the making of such a limitation is a legisla'tive, not a judicial, function. In view of the wording of
§ 77(b) we do not think this Court has the power to substitute the value of-one property interest for the value
of an entirely different one. Sec. 77(b) says that "aetual
damage or injury" shall be allowed. Yet it would be a
mere coincidence if "actual damage or injury" for an
11 year term were the "actual damage or injury" for a 969
year term. " Hence the District Court correctly refused to
substitute any lesser term for the o ne here in question.
No authority, we believe, -can be found which can justify
speculating a claimant into a loss through the easy
assumption that he had a property interest which in fact
he did not have.
. There is a related objection to the allowance of this
claim. It is plain that any attempted computation of
future rental values Of this property for the next 969
years would at best be a mere flight "intQ the realm of
pure speculation" which this Court condemned when the
case was here before. 305 U. S. 493, 505. From our
point in history 969 years hence is perpetuity. It covers
a longer span that from 1941 A. D. to 500 years before
Columbus discovered America. To project past earnings
of a present enterprise through such vicissitudes of time

PALMER v. CONNECTICUT RY. CO.
544

565

DOUGLAS, J., dissenting.

would be to assume a static quality in society which even
a decade of history would disprove. This was tacitly admitted by respondent before the District Court. The
Circuit Court of Appeals recognized the impossibility of
such a task. It therefore produced a substitute method.
It computed the annual estimated values for each Tuture
year for as long a period as it could venture an estimate.
That, however, misses the nature of the problem. Under
the rule laid down by this Court, the great unknown in
such cases is the "present rental value of the remainder
of the term." The actual damage, if any, to the lessor
is suffered all at once. For § 77, like former § 77B (City
Bank Farmers Trust Co. v. Irving Trust Co., 299 U. S.
433, 440) extends the doctrine of anticipatory breach
(Central Trust Co. v. Chicago Auditorium Assn., 240
U. S. 581) to leases of realty. Where there is such a
breach "compensation therefor may be recovered at once
for the whole loss, though the consequence be a continuing one, if the future damage resulting therefrom can be
ascertained with certainty." James v. Kibler's Adm'r,
94 Va. 165, 173; 26 S. E. 417. The liability of the lessee
for damages is single, not multiple. But § 77 (b), unlike some state rules (Hermitage Co. v. Levine, 248 N. Y.
333; 162 N. E. 97), calls for an ascertainment of the full
deficiency not at the end of the term but on rejection of
the lease.
Lessors claiming damages under § 77 (b), like claimants
in ordinary bankruptcy proceedings (Rasmussen v.
Gresly, 77 F. 2d 252, 254; Whitney v. Dresser, 200 U. S.
532), carry the burden of establishing the existence and
amount of the claim. Their proof must satisfy the
"usual rules as to the measure of damages"; they "must
show damages to reasonable certainty." Connecticut
Railway & Lighting Co. v. Palmer, supra, at p. 505.
While absolute certainty is not required where a claim
for damages is sought (Hetzel v. Baltimore & Ohio -R.

566

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
DOUGLAS, J., dissenting.

311 U. S.

Co., 169 V. S. 26, 37), the evidence must be sufficient for
the exercise of an informed judgment as to the amount.
Where the existence or extent of the damage is a matter
of mere conjecture or guesswork, the claim will be denied. PennsylvaniaSteel Co. v. New York City Ry. Co.,
198 F. 721, 759. When the instant case was here before,
the PennsylvaniaSteel Co. case was cited for the statement, "The difficulties of proof are well recognized."
305 U. S. at 504. In the Pennsylvania Steel Co. case
damages for breach of a lease with an unexpired term of
995 years were disallowed in receivership proceedings, the
court saying (p. 759): "Who could foretell the results
of. operation by the owner, the growth of the city, improvements in motive power, or reductions in cost? Who
could foresee whether a lease could be made to another
railroad company or the terms thereof? . . The claim
for such damages was properly disallowed because it was
uncertain .in amount and there was no method of making
it certain."
Those observations are peculiarly apt when applied
to the facts in this record. Here there is no evidence as
to market value. Cf. Metropolitan Bldg. Co. v. King
County, 62 .Wash. 409; 113 P. 1114.' Nor has there been
any fair, bona fide reletting. Cf. James v. Kibler's
Adn'r, supra. In this record there is no substantial evidence as to value except estimated past earnings. Useful as past-earnings may be in certain situations where a
short and limited forecast is being made (Eastman
Kodak Co. v. Southern Photo Materials Co., 273 U. S.
359) they are indeed treacherous when used as the sole
basis for appraisal." The value of a going enterprise is
dependent on earnings. A forecast of earnings must
take into consideration the numerous and variable fac'1 Bonbright, Valuation of Property, c. XII.

PALMER v. CONNECTICUT RY. CO.
544

DOuoas, J., dissenting.

tors which affect income-producing capacity.2 Those
factors vary from business to business. Here we are
dealing with passenger transportation by bus. Certainly
any forecast of earnings should embrace an expert study
of problems peculiar to this field-the territory served,
population trends, competitive conditions, the record of
companies in comparable territory, and the like. Any
estimate which wholly ignores such factors and relies
entirely on past earnings ignores the very conditions
which alone can impeach or sustain the credibility of
past earnings as a measure of future earnings.' Cf.
Hammond Lumber Co. v. County of Los Angeles, 104
Cal. App. 235; 285 P. 896.
-The problem of determining the present value of this
unexpired term of 969 years is not different from the
problem of valuing a fee interest.
The fact that this instrument is called a "lease" is no
barrier to such an appraisal. For, as stated by this
Court in Union Pacific Ry. Co. v. Chicago, R. I. & P. Ry.
Co., 163 U. S. 564, 582, where a so-called "lease" was
construed: "What it was styled by the parties does not
determine its character or their legal relations." The
court has not only the power but the duty to determine
its real character by consideration of all its intrinsic and
extrinsic characteristics. Id., at p. 582. A lease renewable forever or a lease in perpetuity (as here) is the
equivalent of a fee interest. It has been so-treated in
'Bonbright, op. cit., supra, note 1; Dewing, Financial Policy of
Corporations, pp. 319 et seq.; Graham & Dodd,. Security Analysis, c.
I; Kniskern, Real Estate Appraisal & Valuation, pp. 235 et seq.;
Mason, The Street Railway in Massachusetts, a. 6; McMichael, Long
& Short Term Leaseholds.
*In the Matter of Breeze Corporations, Inc., 3 S. E. C. D. & R.
709; In the Matter of Mining & Development Corp., 1 S. E. C. D.
& R. 786.

568

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
DoUc#As, J., dissenting.

311 U. S.

Connecticut, where the instant lease was made, for purposes of taxation. Connecticut Spiritualist Camp-Meeting Assn. v. Town,of East Lyme, 54 Conn. 152, 155-156;
5 A. 849. As stated in Piper v. Meredith, 83 N. H. 107,
110; 139 A. 294, "it is well settled law that a perpetual
lease upon condition conveys to 'the lessee a determinable or base fee." Or as stated in Whittelsey v. Porter,
82 Conn. 95, 102, a 999 year lease is "practically a fee
defeasible only upon failure to perform certain conditions." And see Montgomery v. Town of Branford, 107
Conn. 697, 702; 142 A. 574; Wells v. Savannah, 181 U. S.
531; Leary v. Jersey City, 248 U. S. 328; Trustees of
Elmira v. Dunn, 22 Barb. 462. The mere reversionary
interest of the lessor in a perpetual lease is so remote
and speculative as to defy valuation. See Chicago West
Division Ry. Co. v. Metropolitan West Side Elevated R,
Co., 152 Ill. 519, 524-526; 38 N. E. 736. As stated by
the Supreme Court of Errors of Connecticut, the reversion under a 999 year lease becomes a "mere imaginary
estate." Brainard v. Town of Colchester, 31 Conn. 407,
411. Whatever may be the precise catalogue of all
rights of the lessee (Goodwin v. Goodwin, 33 Conn. 314;
Dennis Appeal, 72 Conn. 369; 44 A. 545) and whatever
may have been the business and legal reasons for use
of the 999 year lease rather than the acquisition of the
assets by merger, consolidation or otherwise,' it is plain
that for all practical purposes the lessee retains such full
control and such complete enjoyment of the property
that he may properly be treated as the owner. Such a
lease is in effect "a practical sale." Lord v. Town of
Litchfield, 36 Conn. 116, 126.
'McMichael, op. cit., supra, note 2, c. I; Meck & Masten, Railroad
Leases and Reorganization, 49 Yale L. J. 626; Niehuss & Fisher,
Problems of Long Term Leases, 2 Mich. Bus. Studies, Pamphlet 8;
The Long Term Ground Lease: A Survey, 48 Yale L. J. 1400.

PALMER v. CONNECTICUT iRY. CO.
544

DOUGL's,

J., dissenting.

Thus the problem of determining the present value
of the unexpired term of 969 years is no different from
determining the value of land in an action for breach of
a contract to purchase it. There the rule is that the
vendor may recover compensation for his actual loss
measured by the difference between the price he was to
receive' (less the amount paid) and the value of the
land at the time of breach. 3 Sedgwick on Damages
(9th ed.) §§ 1023 et seq; In re Marshall's Garage, 63 F.
2d 759. In making that valuation the conventional
rules governing appraisals of the worth of fee interests
would be applicable. 1 Bonbright, Valuation of Property, chs. XIII, XIV.
In sum, whatever rule of damages is applied to this
situation, the proof submitted is not adequate for appraisal of the property interest here involved without
violating the well-established rule against allowance of
speculative damages, announced by this Court on the
first appeal. - No reasons of policy have been suggested
which justify deviation from those well-established principles. The fact that the "lease" extends over a period
of almost ten cerlturies accentuates the necessity for
close. adherence to the rule, not for its relaxation.

'Future payments would of course be reduced to present worth.
Bandy V. Harvey, 218 App. Div. 126; 217 N. Y. S. 877.

