UNITED STATES v. FALCONE.
199

205

Counsel for Parties.

Section 72, Title 28, U. S. Code, provides the requisites
for removing causes from state to federal courts and directs that when complied with, the state court shall proceed no further. The Supreme Court of Ohio declared:
"In passing upon the question of removal, unfortunately
we are limited solely to a consideration of the facts stated
in the petition." It held that upon them the trial court
should have relinquished jurisdiction.
The causes went to the federal district court and additional facts were there presented. As required by the
statute, that court considered all the relevant facts, petitions and affidavits, exercised its discretion and ordered
the remands. Jurisdiction to decide, we think, is clear;
the Circuit Court of Appeals lacked power to review the
remand.
The challenged order must be
Reversed.
UNITED STATES v. FALCONE ET Au
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEAIS. FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No, 42. Argued November 18, 1940.-Decided December 9, 1940.
One who sells materials knowing thaf they are intended for use, or
will be used, in the production o'fillleit distilled spirits, but not
knowing of a conspiracy to commit the"'crime, is not chargeable
as co-conspirator.' P. 210.
109 F. -2d 579, affirmed.

CERTIORARI, 310 U. S.,620, to review a judgment
reversing convictions of conspiracy.
Assistant Attorney General Rogge, with whom So-

licitor General Biddle and Messrs. Raoul Berger, Irwin
L. Langbein, Herbert Wechsler, George P..Kneip, and

W. Marvin Smith were on the brief, for the United
States.

206

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the, Court.

311 U. S.

Mr. Daniel H. Priorfor Salvatore and Joseph Falcone,
and Mr. Roger 0. Baldwin for Henry Alberico, respondents, for whom also Mr. Anthony S. Falcone entered an
appearance.
MR. JUSTICE STONE delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The question presented by this record is whether one
who sells materials with knowledge that they are intended
for use or will be used in the production of illicit distilled
spirits may be convicted as a co-conspirator with a distiller who conspired with others to distill the spirits in
violation of the revenue laws.
Respondents were indicted-with sixty-three others in
the northern district of New York 'for conspiring to Violate the revenue laws by the operation of twenty-two
illicit stills in the vicinity of Utica, New York. The case
was submitted to the jury as to twenty-four defendants,
of whom the five respondents and sixteen operators of
stills were convicted. The Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit reversed the conviction of the five respondents on the ground that as there was no evidence that
respondents were themselves conspirators, the sale by
them of materials, knowing that they would be used by
others in illicit distilling, was not sufficient to establish
that respondents were guilty of the conspiracy charged.
.109 F. 2d 579. We granttq certiorari, 310 U. S. 620j to
resolve an asserted conflict of the decision below with
those of courts of appeals in other circuits. Simpson v.
United States, 11 F. 2d 591; Pattis v. United States,
17-F. 2d 562; Borgia v. United States, 78 F. 2d 550;
Marino v. United States, 91 F. 2d 691; see Backun v.
United States, 112 F. 2d 635. Compare Young v. United
States, 48F. 2d 26.
All of respoiidents were jobbers. o distributors who,
during the period in question, sold sugar, yeast or cans,

UNITED STATES v. FALCONE.
205

207

Opinion .of the Court.

some of which found their way into the, possession and
use of some of the distiller defendants. The indictment
while charging generally that all the 4efendants were
parties to the conspiracy did not allege specifically that
any of respondents had knowledge of the conspiracy but
it did allege that respondents Alberico and Nole brothers
sold the materials mentioned knowing that they were to
be used in illicit distilling. The court of appeals, reviewing the evidence thought, in the case of some of the respondents, that the jury might take it that they were
knowingly supplying the distillers. As to Nicholas Nole,
whose case it considered most doubtful, it thought that
his equivocal conduct "was as likely to have come from a
belief that it was a crime to sell the yeast. and the cans
to distillers as from being in fact any further involved
in their business." But it assumed for purposes of decision that all furnished supplies which they knew ultimately reached and were used by some of the distillers.
Upon this assumption it said, "In the light, of all this,.
it is apparent that the first question is whether the seller
of goods, in themselves innocent, becomes a conspirator
with-or, what is in substance the same thing, an abettor of-the buyer because he know$ that the buyer means
to use the goods to commit a crime." And it concluded
that merely because respondent did not forego a "normally lawful activity of the fruits of which he knew that
others were making unlawful use" he is not guilty of a
conspiracy.
The Government does not argue here the point which
seems to be implicit in the question raised by its petition
for certiorari, that conviction of conspiracy can rest on
proof alone of knowingly supplying an illicit distiller, who
is not conspiring with others. In such a case, as-the
Government concedes, the act of supplying or some other
proof must import an agreement or concert of action
between buyer and seller, which admittedly is not present

208

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court..

311 U.S.

here. Cf. Gebardi v. United States, 287 U. S. 112, 121;
Di Bonaventura-v. United States, 15 F. 2d 494. But
the Government does contend that one who with knowledge of a conspiracy to distill illicit spirits sells materials
to a conspirator knowing that they will be used in the
distilling, is himself guilty of the conspiracy. It is said
that he is, either because his knowledge combined with
his action makes him a participant Jn the agreement
which is the conspiracy, or what is the same thing he is
a principal in the conspiracy as an aider or abettor by
virtue of § 332 of the Criminal Code, 18 U. S. C. § 550,
which provides: "Whoever directly commits any act constituting an offense defined in any law of the United
States, or aids, abets, counsels, commands, induces or
procures its commission, is a principal."
The argument, the merits of which we do not consider,
overlooks the fact that the opinion below proceeded,.on
the assumption that the evidence showed only that respondents or some of them knew that the materials sold
would be used in the distillation of illicit spirits, and
fell short of showing respondents' participation in the
cons!iiracy or that they knew of it. We did not bring
the case here to review the evidence, but we are satisfied
that the evidence on which the. Government relies does
not do more than show knowledge by respondents that
the materials would be used for illicit distilling if it does
as much in the case of some. In the case of Alberico,
'The two Falcones who were in business as sugar jobbers were
shown to have sold sugar to three wholesale grocers who in turn were
shown to have sold some of the sugar to distillers. To establish
guilty knowledge the Government relies upon evidence showing that
the volume of their sales was materially largci during the periods
activity of the illicit stills; that.Joseph Falcone was shown on two
occa.ions, at one of which Salvatore Falcone was present, to have
heeit
conversation with one of the conspirators who was a distiller,
and on one occasion with another distiller conspirator who was his
brother-in-law; that Joseph Falcone had been seen at the Venezia

UNITED STATES v. FALCONE.
205

209

Opinion of the Court.

as in the case of Nicholas Nole, the jury could have
found that he knew that one of their customers who is
an unconvicted defendant was using the purchased mateRestaurant which was patronized by some of the conspirators and
knew its proprietor; and on two occasions Salvatore Falcone had
visited the restaurant, on one to collect funds for the Red Cross and

on another for a monument to Marconi.
Respondent Alberico was a member of a firm of wholesale grocers
who dealt in sugar and five-gallon tin cans among other things. They
sold sugar to wholesale grocers and jobbers. To establish Alberico's
guilty knowledge the Government relies on evidence that his total
purchases of sugar materially increased during' the period when the
illicit stills were shown to be in operation; that some of his sugar
purchases from a local wholesaler were at higher prices than he was
then paying others; that on the -premises of one of the distillers
there were found fifty-five cardboard cartons, each suitable for containing one dozen five-gallon cans, on one of which was stencilled the
name of Alberico's firm; that on eight to ten occasions Alberico sold
sugar and cans in unnamed amounts to Morreale, one of the defendant
distillers who was not convicted, and on one occasion was overheard
to say, in refusing credit to Morreale, "I could not trust you because
your business is too risky."
Respondent Nicholas Nole was shown to be-proprietor of Acme
Yeast Company and also the Utica Freight Forwarding Company, to
which one and one-half tons of K & M yeast was consigned by the
seller. Wrappers bearing the distinctive marks of the Acme Yeast
Company and K & M yeast, quantity not stated were found at one
of the stills; and a K & M yeast container was found at another.
To show guilty knowledge of Nicholas Nole the Government relies on
the circumstance that he registered the Acme Yeast Company in the
county clerk's office in the name of a cousin; that the order for the
consignment of K & M yeast was placed in the name -of an unidentified person; that Nole had been seen in conversation with some of
the convicted distillers at a time when some of the illicit stills were
in operation, and that on one occasion during that period he sold and
delivered fifteen five-gallon cans of illicit alcohol from a source not
stated.
Respondent John Nole was shown to be a distributor for the National Grain Yeast Company in.,Utica during the period in question.
Yeast wrappers bearing the National labels were found at three of
the stills. To show guilty knowledge of John Nole the Government
276055--41-

14

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

311 U. S.

rial in illicit distilling. But it could not be inferred from
that or from the casual and unexplained meetings of some
of respondents with others who were convicted as conspirators that respondents knew of the conspiracy. The
evidence respecting the volume of sales to any known
to be distillers is too vague and inconclusive to support
a jury finding that respondents knew of a conspiracy from
the size of the purchases even though we were to assume
what we do not decide that the knowledge would make
them, conspirators or aiders• or abettors of the conspiracy.
Respondents are not charged with aiding and abetting
illicit distilling, and they cannot be brought within the
sweep of the Government's conspiracy dragnet if they
had no knowledge that there was a conspiracy.
The gist of the offense of conspiracy as defined by § 37
of the Criminal Code, 18 U. S. C. § 88, is agreement
among the conspirators to commit an offense attended
by an act of one or more of the conspirators. to effect
the object of the conspiracy. Pettibone v. United States,
148 U. S. 197; Marino v. United States, supra; Troutman
v. United States, 100 F. 2d 628; Beland v. United States,
100 F. 2d 289; cf. Gebardi v. United States, supra.
Those having no knowledge of the conspiracy are not
conspirators, United States v. Hirsch, 100 U. S. 33, 34;
Weniger v. UnitedStates, 47 F,2d 692, 693; and one who
relies on evidence that he had assisted his brother Nicholas in unloading yeast at the Utica Freight Forwarding Co.; that he was a
patron of the Venezia Restaurant; that on one occasion he was seen

talking with Morreale, the unconvieted distiller, in the vicinity of a
store in Utica, whose store it does not appear. On three occasions
Morreale and another convicted defendant procured yeast in cartons

and some in kegs at the store and on one occasion John Nole told
the person in charge of the store to let them have the yeast; that
John Noles' information return required by the Government of all

sales of yeast in excess of five pounds to one person did not show
in February or March, 1938, any sale of yeast to, Morreale or any
sale of keg yeast.

SCHRIBER CO. v. CLEVELAND TRUST CO.
.205

211,

Syllabus.

without more furnishes supplies to an illicit distiller is
not guilty of conspiracy even though his sale may have
furthered the object of a conspiracy to which the distiller
was a party but of which the supplier had no knowledge.
On this record we have no occasion to decide any other
question.

Affirmed.
SCHRIBER-SCHROTH CO. v. CLEVELAND TRUST
CO. ET AL.*
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE

SIXTH CIRCUIT.
No. 9.

Argued October 24, 25, 1940.-Decided December 9, 1940.

1. The claims of a patent are interpreted in the light of the specifications, but with reference also to its file-wrapper history. P 217.
2.. It is a rule of patent construction that a claim in a patent must
be read and interpreted with reference to claims that have been
cancelled or rejected and the claims allowed can not by construction be read to cover what has thus been eliminated from the
patent. P. 220.
3. While this rule is most frequently invoked when the original and
cancelled 'laim is broader than that allowed, the. rule and the
reason for it are the same if the cancelled or rejected claim be
narrower. P. 221,
4. The patentee may not, by resort to the doctrine of equivalents,
give to an allowed claim a scope which it might have had but
for amendments, the cancellation of which amounts to a disclaimer.
P. 221.
5. The patent to Jardine, No. 1,763,523, (Claims 1, 8, and 11),
relating to pistons for internal combustion engines, claims -the
combination of a piston-head, a divided skirt, and webs connecting'
Together. with No. 10, Aberdeen Motor Supply Co. v. Cleveland
Trust Co. et al., and No. 11, F. E. Rowe Sales Co. v. Cleveland
Trust Co. et al., also on writs of certiorari, 309 U. S. 648, to the
'Circuit Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit. The Chrysler Corporation was joined as a party plaintiff in the original suits and
is a nominal respondent here.

