R. F. C. v. PRUDENCE GROUP.

579

Statement of the Case.

RECONSTRUCTION FINANCE CORP. ET AL. v. PRUDENCE SECURITIES ADVISORY GROUP ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 69.

Argued December 16, 17, 1940.-Decided January 6, 1941.

1. The proper procedure for taking appeals under § 250 of the
Bankruptcy Act, as amended, from orders making or refusing
to make allowances of compensation or reimbursement -under
Chapter X, is by filing in the Circuit Court of Appeals, within
the time prescribed by § 25 (a), applications for leave to appeal,
not by filing notiees of appeal in the District Court. P. 581.
2. Rule 73 (a) of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure, which provides that when an appeal "is permitted by law from a District
Court to a Circuit Court of Appeals" it may be taken by filing
with the District Court a notice of appeal, is inapplicable to
appeals under § 250 of the Bankruptcy Act, which may be had
only in the discretion of the Circuit Court of Appeals. P. 581.
3. Although appeals under § 250 must be "taken to" the Circuit
Court of Appeals within the time prescribed by § 25 (a),
it is not required also that they be "allowed" within that time.
P. 582.
4. Ambiguities in statutory language should not be resolved so as
to imperil a substantial right which has been granted. P. 582.
5. Where, subsequent to London v. O'Dougherty, 102 F. 2d 524,
and prior to Dickinson Industrial Site v. Cowan, 309 U. S. 382,
notices of appeals from compensation orders under § 77B of the
Bankruptcy Act were filed'in the District Court, within the appeal
period prescribed by § 25 (a), although no application for leave
to appeal was made to the Circuit Court of Appeals, held that
the Circuit Court of Appeals was not without jurisdiction to
allow the appeals. Pp. 580, 582.
111 F. 2d 37, reversed.
CERTIORARI,

310 U. S. 622, to review a judgment dis-

missing appeals from compensation orders of the bankruptcy court.

580

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

311 U. S.

Assistant Solicitor General Fahy, with whom Solcitor
General Biddle and Messrs. Richard H. Demuth, James
F. Dealy, Clifford J. Durr, Hans A. Klagsbrunn, Charles
M.-McCarthy, J. M. Richardson Lyeth, and Emery H.
Sykes were on the brief, for petitioners.
Mr. John Gerdes for respondents.

MR.

JUSTICE. DOUGLAS

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
Dickinson Industrial Site v. Cowan, 309 U. S. 382,
decided on March 11, 1940, held that appeals from all
,,orders making or refusing to make allowances of compensation or reimbursement under Ch. X of the Chandler
Act (52 Stat. 840) may be had only at the discretion of
the Circuit Court of Appeals. Prior to that decision the
Circuit Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit had held
that appeals from such orders (involving $500 or more)
could be had as a matter of right. London v. O'Dougherty, 102F. 2d 524. Subsequent to the decision in the
London case and prior to the decision of Dickinson Industrial Site v. Cowan, supra, petitioners endeavored to
take appeals from compensation orders, which had been
entered in reorganization proceedings Under former § 77 B
(48 Stat. 912), by filing within the appeal period provided
by § 25 (a) of the Bankruptcy Act, notices of appeal in
the District Court. No 'application for leave to appeal
was made to the Circuit Court of Appeals at any time.
Some of the appeals were argued in May, 1939, the
balance in February, 1940, some of the notices of appeal
having been filed in the District Court in March, 1939,
and some in November, 1939. While the matter was
under advisement in the Circuit Court of Appeals we decided Dickinson IndustrialSite v. Cowan, supra. Thereupon certain respondents moved for dismissal of the
appeals for want of jurisdiction. All of the appeals were

R. F. C. v. PRUDENCE GROUP.
579

Opinion of the Court.

dismissed, some on those motions and some by the court
sua sponte. 111 F. 2d 37. The case is here on petition
for certiorari which we granted in view of the importance
of the procedural problem in administration of the
Bankruptcy Act and of the asserted substantial conflict
of the decision below with Baxter v. Savings Bank, 92
F. 2d 404, and Wilson v. Alliance Life Ins. Co., 102 F.
2d 365, decided by the Circuit Court of Appeals for the
Fifth Circuit.
Sec. 250 of the Chandler Act provides that appeals
from compensation orders "may, in the manner and
within the time provided for appeals by this Act, be
taken to and allowed, by the circuit court of appeals."
Petitioners :contend that when § 250 states that such
appeals may be taken "in the manner . . . provided for
appeals by this Act," it necessarily makes applicable
§ 24 (b) which provides that such appellate jurisdiction
shall be exercised "by appeal and in the form and.manner of an appeal." They argue, therefore, that Rule
73 (a) of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure, which
allows an appeal to be taken "by filing with the district
court a notice of appeal" in those cases where an "appeal is permitted by law from a district court to a circuit
court of appeals," governs appeals under § 250 as well
as other appeals, since General Order No. 36 makes those
rules applicable to appeals in bankruptcy, "except as
otherwise provided in the Act." In our view, however,
Rule 73 (a) is not applicable to appeals under § 250 (see
2 Collier on Bankruptcy (14th ed.) p. 918) for they are
permissive appeals which may be had not as of right but
only in the discretion of the Circuit Court of Appeals.
Since § 250 provides that they may "be taken to and
allowed by.the circuit court of appeals," the proper procedure for taking them is by filing in the Circuit Court
of Appeals, within the time prescribed in § 25 '(a), applications for leave to appeal, not by ling notices of

582

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

311 U. S.

appeal in the District Court as was done here. As
respondents maintain, that is the fair implication from
our conclusion in Dickinson Industrial Site v. Cowan,
supra, at p. 385, that such appeals "may be had only at
the discretion of the Circuit Court of Appeals." But
while the appeals under § 250 must be "taken to" the
Circuit Court of Appeals within the time prescribed in
§ 25 (a) we do not think it is the fair intendment of that
section that they must also be "allowed" within that
time. Cf. In re Foster Construction Corp., 49 F. 2d 213;
Price v. Spokane Silver & Lead Co., 97 F. 2d 237. If
that were true, the existence of the right to appeal would
be subject to contingencies which no degree of diligence
by an appellant could control. Ambiguities in statutory
language should not be resolved so as to imperil a
substantial right which has been granted.
The court below was in substantial agreement with the
foregoing construction of § 250. It went on to hold,
however, that since petitioners did not seek an allowance of their appeals in that court within the time prescribed in § 25 (a), it had no jurisdiction to allow them.
We take a different view.
The procedure followed by petitioners was irregular.
Normally the Circuit Court of Appeals would be wholly
justified in treating the mere filing of a notice of appeal
in the District Court as insufficient. But the defect is
not jurisdictional in the sense that it deprives the court
of power to allow the appeal. The court has discretion,
where the scope of review is not affected, to disregard
such an irregularity in the interests of substantial justice. Cf. Taylor v. Voss, 271 U. S. 176, dealing with appeals and petitions for revision under earlier provisions
of the Act. In this case the effect of the procedural
irregularity was not substantial. The scope of review
was not altered. 'There was no question of the good
faith of petitioners, of dilatory tactics, or of frivolous appeals. Hence it would be extremely harsh to hold that

R. F. C. v. PRUDENCE GROUP.
579

Rnmn, J., concurring.

petitioners were deprived of their right to have the court
exercise its discretion on the allowance of their appeals
by reason of their erroneous reliance upon the permanency of London v. O'Dougherty, supra. This conclusion does not do violence to Shulman v. Wilson-Sheridan
Hotel Co., 301 U. S. 172. As we indicated in Dickinson
IndustrialSite v. Cowan, supra, the Shulman case stated
the rule of permissive appeals which was carried over
into § 250. The failure to comply with statutory requirements, however, is not necessarily a jurisdictional
defect.
Cf. Alaska Packers Assn. v. Pillsbury, 301
U. S. 174.
For the reasons stated, we hold that the Circuit Court
of Appeals had the power to allow the appeals.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE REED, concurring.
I am of opinion that timely application to the circuit
court of appeals for leave to appeal is a jurisdictional
requirement, and that the practice followed in this case
cannot be reduced to a mere procedural irregularity.
Farrarv. Churchill, 135 U. S. 609, 612-13; Old Nick Williams Co. v. United States, 215 U. S. 541; Shulman v.
Wilson-Sheridan Hotel Co., 301 U. S. 172. However,
when petitioners filed their notices of appeal in the district court the proper procedure was not settled, and
petitioners were misled by the decision of the court below
in London v. O'Dougherty, 102 F. 2d 524. In these
unique circumstances I think that reversal of the judgment is justified by our broad power to make such disposition of the case as justice requires. Watts, Watts &
Co. v. Unione Austriaca, 248 U. S. 9,. 21; MdntgomerV
Ward & Co. v. Duncan, 311' U. S. 243, 254-255. In rare
instances such as the case at bar this power is .appropriate for curing e-len jurisdictional defects. Cf. Rorick v.
Commissioners, 307 U. S. 208, 213.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS

joins in this opinion.

