112

1OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Counsel for Petitioner.

311 U. S.

HELVERING," COMMISSIONER OF INTERNAL
REVENUE, v. HORST.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT. COURT OF APPEALS
SECOND CIRCUIT.

FOR THE

No. 27.' "rgued October 25, 1940.--Decided November 25, 1940.
1. Where, in 1934 and 1935, an owner of negotiable bonds, who
reported income on the cash receipts basis, detached from the
bonds negotiable interest coupons before their due date and delivered them as a gift to his son, who in the same year collected them
at maturity, held that, under § 22 of the Revenue Act of 1934,
and in the year that the interest payments were made, there was a
realization of income, in the amount of such payments, taxable to
the donor. P. 117.
2. The dominant purpose of the income tax laws is the taxation of
.income to those who earn or otherwise create the right to receive
it and who enjoy the benefit of it when paid. P. 119.
3. The tax laid by the 1934 Revenue Act upon income "derived
from ..j wages or compensation for personal service, of whatever kind and in whatever form paid . . .; also. from inter-

est .. ." can not fairly be interpreted as not applying to income
Olerived from interest or compensation when he who is entitled
to receive it makes use of his power to dispose of it in procuring
satisfactions which he would otherwise procure only by the use
of the money when received. P. 119.
4. This case distinguished from Blair v. Commissioner, 300 U. S. 5;
and compared with Lucas v. Earl, 281 U. S. 111, and Burnet v.
Leininger, 285 U. S. 136. Pp. 118-120.
107 F. 2d 906,.reversed.
CERTIORARI, 309 U. S. 650, to review the reversal of an
order of the Board of Tax Appeals, 39 B. T. A. 757, sustaining a determination of a deficiency in income tax.

Mr. Arnold Raum, with whom Solicitor General Biddle, Assistant Attorney General Clark, and Messrs.
Sewall Key and Morton K. Rothschild were on the brief,
fpr petitioner.

HELVERING v. HORST.
112

Argument for Respondent.

Mr. Selden Bacon, with whom Mr..Harry H. Wiggins
was on the brief, for respondent.
The coupons were independent negotiable instruments
complete in themselves, and by the gift became the absolute property of the donee free from any control by the
donor by reason of his retention of the bonds from which
they had been detached. Clark v. Iowa City, 20 Wall.
583; Hartman v. Greenhow, 102 U. S. 672; Koshkonong
v. Burton, 104 U. S. 668; Clokey v. Evansville & T. H.
R. Co., 16 App. Div. 304; Pratt v. Higginson, 230 Mass.
256.
The two cases on this point in the Circuit Courts of
Appeals agree that coupons so given away before their
maturity are not income of the donor, but of the donee.
Rosenwald v. Commissioner,33 F. 2d 423; Horst v. Commissioner, 107 F. 2d 906. See also, Matchette v. Helvering, 81 F. 2d 73; Williston v. Commissioner, 2 Mass.
A. T. B. 663; Schoonmaker v. Commissioner, 39 B. T. A.
496.
The case at bar is 'not governed by Helvering v. Clifford, 309 U. S.331, but by Blair v. Commissioner, 300
U. S.5, 11-14. In the Clifford case there was no thing
separated and completely transferred. What was transferred was net income from a trust fund over which Clifford-retained absolute control. He might easily,.under
the extensive powers' reserved to himself, invest it in such
a way that there might be no net income therefrdrm
during the specified period. That was left to his own
absolute discretion. That is a very different thing from
an absolute transfer of a specific coupon. Moreover,
Clifford also retained control even over whatever net
income there might be, under the striking provision that
he was to pay over to his wife during the continuance
of the trust, the whole or such part of the net income
as he "in his absolute discretion" might determine. That
276055°--41 ---8

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

311 U. S.

provision practically nullified any absolute right on her
part to get the income. Raymond v. Tiffany, 59 Misc.
283. Any income paid her became a completed gift
only when Clifford exercised his discretion in her favor,
after the income had been collected by him.
MR. JUSTICE STONE

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The sole question for decision is whether the gift, during the donor's taxable year, of interest coupons detached
from the bonds, delivered to the donee and later in the
year paid at maturity, is the realization of income taxable
to the donor.
In 1934 and 1935 respondent, the owner of negotiable
bonds, detached from them negotiable interest coupons
shortly before their due date and delivered them as a
gift to his son who in the same year collected them at
maturity. The Commissioner ruled that under the applicable § 22 of the Revenue Act of 1934, 48 Stat. 680, 686,
the interest payments were taxable, in the years when
paid, to the respondent donor who reported his income
on the cash receipts basis. The Circuit Court of Appeals
reversed the order of the Board of Tax Appeals sustaining
the tax. 107 F. 2d 906; 39 B. T. A. 757. We granted
certiorari, 309 U. S. 650, because of the importance of the
question in the administration of the revenue laws and
because of an asserted conflict in principle of the decision
below with that of Lucas v. Earl, 281 U. S. 111, and with
that of decisions by other circuit courts of appeals. See
Bishop v. Commissioner, 54 F. 2d 298; Dickey v. Burnet,
56 F. 2d 917, 921; Van Meter v. Commissioner, 61 F. 2d
817.
The court below thought that as the consideration for
th-.coupons had passed to the obligor, the donor had, by
the gift, parted with all control over them and their payment, and for that reason the case was distinguishable

HELVERING v. HORST.
112

Opinion of the Court.

from Lucas v. Earl, supra, and Burnet v. Leininger, 285
U. S. 136, where the assignment of compensation for services had preceded the rendition of the services,, and
where the income was held taxable to the donor.
The holder of a coupon bond is the owner of two independent and separable kinds of right. One is the right
to demand and receive at maturity the principal amount
of the bond representing capital investment. The other
is the right to demand and receive interim payments of
interest on the investment in the amounts and on the
dates specified by the coupons. Together they are an
obligation to pay principal and interest given in exchange
for money or property which was presumably the consideration for the obligation of the bond. Here respondent,
as owner of the bonds, had acquired the legal right to
demand payment at maturity of the interest specified by
the coupons and the power to command its payment to
others, which constituted an economic gain to him.
Admittedly not all economic gain of the taxpayer is
taxable income. From the beginning the revenue laws
have been interpreted as defining "realization" of income
as the taxable event, rather than the &cquisition of the
right to receive it. And "realization" is not deemed to
occur until the income is paid. But the decisions and
regulations have consistently recognized that receipt in
cash or property is not the only characteristic of realization of income to a taxpayer on the cash receipts basis.
Where the taxpayer does not receive payment of income
-in money or property realization may occur when the last
step is taken. by which he obtains the fruition of the
economic gain which has already accrued to him. Old
Colony Trust Co. v. Commissioner,279 U. S. 716; Corliss
v. Bowers, 281 U. S. 376, 378. Cf. Burnet v. Wells, 289
U. S. 670.
in the ordinary case the taxpayer who acquirs the
right to receive income is taxed when he receives it,
regardless of the time when his right to receive payment

116

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

311 U.S.

accrued. But the rule that income is not taxable until
realized has never been taken to mean that the taxpayer, even on the cash receipts basis, who has fully
enjoyed the benefit of the economic gain represented by
his right to receive income, can escape taxation because
he has not Himself received payment of it from his
obligor. The rule, founded on administrative convenience, is only one of postponement of the tax to the final
event of enjoyment of the income, usually the receipt of
it by the taxpayer, and not one of exemption from taxation where the enjoyment is consummated by some event
other than the taxpayer's personal receipt of money or
property. Cf. Aluminum Castings Co. v. Routzahn, 282
U. S. 92, 98. This may occur when he has made such use
or disposition of his power to receive or control the income as to procure in its place other satisfactions which
are of economic worth. The question here is, whether
because one who in fact receives payment for services or
interest payments is taxable only on his receipt of the
payments, he can escape all tax by giving away his right
to income in advance of payment. If the taxpayer procures payment* directly to his creditors of the items of
interest or earnings due him, see Old Colony Trust Co. v.
Commissioner, supra; Bowers v. Kerbaugh-Empire Co.,
271 U. S. 170; United Statis v. Kirby Lumber Co., 284
U. S. 1, or if he sets up a revocable trust with income
payable to the objects of his bounty, §§ 166, 167, Revenue Act of 1934, Corliss v. Bowers, supra; cf. Dickey v.
Burnet, 56 F. 2d 917, 921, he does not escape taxation
because he did not actually receive the money. Cf. Douglas v. Willcuts, 296 U. S. 1; Helvering v. Clifford, 309
U. S. 331.
Underlying the reasoning in these cases is the thought
that income is "realized" by the assignor because he,,
who owns or controls the source of the income, also
controls the disposition of that which he could have

HELVERING v. HORST.
112

117

Opinion of the Court.

received himself and diverts the payment from himself
to others as the means of procuring the satisfaction of
his wants. The taxpayer has equally enjoyed the fruits
of his labor or investment and obtained the satisfaction,
of his desires whether he collects and uses the income
to procure those satisfactions, or whether he disposes of
his right to collect it as the means of procuring them.
Cf. Burnet v. Wells, supra.

Although the donor here, by the transfer of the coupons, has precluded any possibility of his collecting them
himself, he has nevertheless, by his act, procured payment of the interest as a valuable gift to a member of
his family. Such a use of his economic gain, the right
to receive income, to procure a satisfaction which can
be obtained only by the expenditure of money or property,
would seem to be the enjoyment of the income whether
the satisfaction is the purchase of goods at the corner
grocery, the payment of his debt there, or such nonmaterial satisfactions as may result from the payment of
a campaign or community chest contribution, or a gift
to his favorite son. -Even though he never receives the
money, he derives money's worth from the disposition of
the coupons which he has used as money or money's
worth in the procuring of a satisfaction which is procurable only by the expenditure of money or money's
worth. The enjoyment of the economic benefit accruing
to him by virtue of his acquisition of the coupons is
realized as completely as it would have l6een if he had
collected the interest in dollars and expended them for
any of the purposes named. Burnet v. Wells, supra.
In a real sense he has enjoyed compensation for money
loaned or services rendered, and not any the less so because it is his only reward for them. To say that one
who has made a gift thus derived from interest or earnings paid to his donee has never enjoyed or realized the
fruits of his investment or labor, because he has assigned

118

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

311 U. S.

them instead of collecting them himself and then paying
them over to the donee, is to'affront common understanding and to deny the facts of common experience. Common understanding and experience are the touchstones
for the interpretation of the revenue laws.
The power to dispose of income is the equivalent of
ownership* of it. The exercise of that power to procure
the payment of income to another is the enjoyment, and
hence the realization- of the income by him who exercises
it. We have had no difficulty in applying that proposition where the assignment preceded the rendition of the
services, Lucas v. Earl, supra;Burnet v. Lein nger, supra,
-for it was recognized in the Leininger case that in such
a case the rendition of the service by the assignor was.
the means by which the income was controlled by the
donor and of making his assignment effective. But it
is the assignment by which the disposition of income is
controlled when the service precedes the assignment, and
in both cases it is the exercise of the power of disposition
of the interest or compensation, with- the resulting payment to the donee, which is the enjoyment by the donor
of income derived from them.
.This was emphasized in Blair v. Commissioner, 300
U. S. 5, on which respondent relies, where the distinction
was taken between a gift of income derived from an
obligation to pay compensation and a gift of incomeproducing property. In the circumstances of that case,
the right to income from the trust property was thought
to be so identified *with the equitable ownership of the
property, from which alone the beneficiary- derived his
right to receive the income and his pover to command,
disposition of it, that a gift of the income by the beneficiary became effective only as a gift of his ownership
of the property producing it. Since the gift was deemed
to be a gift of the property, the income from it was'
held to be. the income of the owner of the property,

HELVERING v. HORST.
112

Opinion of the Court.

who was the donee, not the donor-a refinement which'
was unnecessary if respondent's contention here is right,
but one clearly inapplicable to gifts of interest or wages.
Unlike income thus derived from an obligation to pay
interest or compensation, the income of the trust was
regarded as no more the income of the donor than would
be the rent from a lease or a crop raised on a farm after
the leasehold 6r the farm had been given away. Blair v.
Commissioner, supra, 12, 13 and cases cited. See also
Reinecke v.Smith, 289 U. S. 172, 177. We have held
without deviation that where the donor retains control of
the trust property the income is taxable to him although
paid to the donee. Corliss v. Bowers, supra. Cf. Helvering v. Clifford, supra.
The dominant purpose of the revenue laws is the taxation of income'to those who earn or otherwise create the
right to receive it and enjoy the benefii of it when paid.
See, Corliss v. Bowers, supra, 378; Burnet v. Guggenheim, 288 U. S. 280, 283. The tax laid by the 1934 Revenue Act upon income "derived from ... wages, or com-

pensation for personal service, of whatever kind and in
whatever form paid, . ..; also from interest ..

."

there-

fore cannot fairly be interpreted as not applying to income derived from interest or compensation when he
who is entitled to receive it makes use of his power to
dispose of it in procuring satisfactions which he would
otherwise procure ohly by the use of the money when
received.
It is the statute which taxes the income to the donor
although paid to his donee. Lucas v. Earl, supra; Burnet
v. Leininger, supra. True, in those cases the ser- ice
which created 'the right to income followed the assignment, and it was arguable that in point of legal theory
the right to the compensation vested instantaneously in
the assignor when paid, although he never received it;
while here the right of the assignor to receive the income

120'

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
McREYNOLDS, J., dissenting.

311 U.S.

antedated the assignment which transferred the right
and thus precluded such an instantaneous vesting. But
the statute affords no basis for such "attenuated subtleties." The distinction was explicitly rejected as the basis
of decision in Lucas v. Earl. It should be rejected here;
for no more than in the Earl case can the purpose of the
statute to tax the income to him who earns, or creates
and enjoys it be escaped by "anticipatory arrangements
however skilfully devised" to prevent the income from
vesting even for a second in the donor.
Nor is it perceived that there is any adequate basis for
distinguishing between the gift of interest. coupons here
and a gift of salary.or commissions. The owner of a nego-,
tiable bond and of the investment which it represents, if
not the lender, stands in the place of the lender. When,
by the gift of the coupons, he has separated his right to
interest payments from his investment and procured the
payment of the interest to his donee, he has enjoyed
the economic benefits of the income in the same manner
and to the same extent as though the transfer were of
earnings, and in both cases the import of the statute is
that the fruit is not to be attributed to a different tree
from that on which it grew. See. Lucas v. Earl, supra,
Reversed.
115.
The sepaTate opinion of MR. JUSTICE McREYNOLDS.
The facts were stipulated. In the opinion of the court
below the issues are thus adequately stated"The petitioner owned a number of coupon bonds.
The coupons represented the interest on the bonds and
were payable to bearer. In 1934 he detached unmatured
coupons of face value of $25,182.50 and transferred them
'y manual delivery to his son as a gift. The coupons
natured later on in the same year, and the son collected
bhe face amount, $25,182.50, as his own property. There

HELVERING v. HORST.
112

MCRmYoLDS, J., dissenting.

was a similar transaction in 1935. The petitioner kept
his books on a cash basis. He did not include any part
of the moneys collected on the coupons in his income
tax returns for these two years. The son included them
in his returns. The Commissioner added the moneys
collected on the coupons to the petitioner's taxable income and determined a tax deficiency for each year. The
Board of Tax Appeals, three members dissenting, sustained the Commissioner, holding that the amounts
collected on the coupons were taxable as income to the
petitioner."
The decision of the Board of Tax Appeals was reversed,
and properly so, I think.
The unmatured coupons given to the son were independent negotiable instruments, complete in themselves.
Through the gift they became at once the absolute property of the donee, free from the donor's control and in
no way dependent upon ownership of the bonds. No
question of actual fraud or purpose to defraud the revenue
is presented.
Neither Lucas v. Earl, 281 U. S. 111, nor Burnet v.
Leininger, 285 U. S. 136, support petitioner's view. Blair
v. Commissioner, 300 U. S. 5, 11, 12, shows that neither
involved an unrestricted completed transfer of property.
Helvering v. Clifford, 309 U. S. 331, 335, 336, decided
after the opinion below, is'much relied upon by petitioner,
but involved facts very different from those now before
us. There no separate thing was absolutely transferred
and put beyond possible control by the transferror. The
Court affirmed that Clifford, both conveyor and trustee,
"retained the substance of full enjoyment of all the rights
which previously he had in the 'property." "In substance his control over the corpus was in all -essential
respects the same after the trust was created, as before."
"With that control in his hands he would keep direct

122

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Argument for Respondent.

311 U. S.

command over'aU that he needed to remain in substantially the same financial situation as before."
The general principles approved in Blair v. Commissioner, 300 U. S. 5, are applicable and controlling. The
challenged judgment should be affirmed.

The CHIEF Justic and MR.JusnCE ROBERTS concur
in this opinion.
HELVERING, COMMISSIONER OF INTERNAL
REVENUE, v. EUBANK.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 205. Argued October 25, 1940.-Decided November 25, 1940.
Renewal commissions paid in 1933 by insurance companies to the
assignee of an agent, pursuant to assignments made by the agent, in
1924 and 1928, of'such commissions as should become payable to him
for services which had been rendered in writing policies of insurance
under agency contracts, held, under § 22 of the Revenue Act of 1932,

income taxable in 1933 to the assignor. Following Helvering v.
Horst, ante, p. 112. P. 124.
110 F. 2d 737, reversed.

CERTIORARI, post; p. 630, to review the reversal of an
order of the Board of Tax Appeals, 39 B. T. A. 583, sustaining a determination of a deficiency in income tax.

Mr. Arnold Raum, with whom Solicitor General Biddle, Assistant Attorney General Clark, and Messrs. J.
Louis Monarch and Morton K. Rothschild were on the
brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Harry J. Rudick, with whom Mr. John W. Drye,
Jr. was on the brief, for respondent.
The taxable status of assigned income depends upon
ownership or control of the property which produces the

