584

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
.Statement of the Case.

311 U. S.

NATIONAL LABOR RELATIONS BOARD v. LINKBELT COMPANY.*
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT 6F APPEALS FOR THE
SEVENTH CIRCUIT.

No. 235. Argued December 18,. 1940.-Decided January 6, 1941.
1. An order of the National Labor Relations Board requiring an
employer to disestablish a labor organization of its employees,
and directing the employer to reinstate or to make. whole certain
employees against whom the Board found the employer had discriminated in regard to hire or tenure of employment because of
their union membership and activities, held based on findings
supported by substantial evidence. Pp. 585-597.
2. In reaching the conclusion that there was no evidence in this
case from which it could be inferred that the employees did
not, with complete independence and freedom from domination,
interference or support of the employer, form their own union,
the. Circuit -Court of Appeals substituted its judgment on disputed
facts for that of the Board-a power denied it by Congress.
P. 596.
3. It is for the Board, not the courts, to determine whether the
disestablishment of a labor organization is required, notwithstanding its subsequent conduct, in order to dissipate completely the
effects of unfair labor practices which aided its formation. P. 600.
4. The evidence in this case sustains the findings of the Board that
certain employees were discharged and discriminated against in
violation of § 8 (1) and (3) of the Act. P. 600 et seq.
110-F. 2d 506, reversed.
CERTIORARI, post, p. 629, to review a judgment refusing

to order enforcement of portions of an order of the
National Labor Relations Board.
*Together with No. 236, National Labor Relations Board v.
Independent, Union of Craftsmen, also on .writ of certiorari, post,
p. 629, to the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit.

LABOR BOARD v. LINK-BELT CO.
584

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. Robert B. Watts, with whom Solicitor General
Biddle, Assistant Solicitor General Fahy, and Messrs.
Thomas E. Harris, Laurence A. Knapp, and Morris P.
Glushien were on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Henry E. Seyfarth, with whom Mr. Herbert Pope
was on the brief, for respondent in No. 235.
Mr. Benjamin Wham for respondent in No. 236.
MR. JusTICE DOUGLAS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
rr

The court below refused to enforce certain portions of
an order of the National Labor Relations Board, entered
in proceedings 1 under § 10 of the Act (49 Stat. 449),
requiring an employer to, cease and desist from dominating or interfering with a labor. organization and to
withdraw recognition from it as a collective bargaining
representative of employees; and directing the employer
to reinstate or to make whole certain, employees 2 against
whom the Board fuund the employer had disciiminated
because of their uniria membership and activities. Enforcement of those portions of the order was refused because, in the view of the court below, they were not
1These

proceedings were instituted on charges filed in 1937 and

1938 by Lodge 16Q4 of Amalgamated Association of Iron, Steel and.
Tin Workers of North America, affiliated with the Steel Workers, Organizing Committee, and through it with the Committee for Industrial Organization. The complaint, as amended, charged that the employer, respondent in No. 235, had engaged in unfair labor practices
within the meaning of § 8 (1), (2), and (3) of the Act; 29 U. S. C.
§ 158 (1), (2), and (3). Independent Union of Craftsmen, respond-

ent in No. 236, was allowed to intervene, was represented by counsel
and participated throughout the proceedings.
'The Board did not sustain the charges that certain other employees had been discharged bpecause of their union activities.

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

311 U. S.

"supported by evidence" as required by § 10 (e) of the
Act. The petition for writs of certiorari was granted because of the importance in an orderly administration of
the Act of the mandate contained in § 10 (e) that the
findings of the Boaid as to the facts "if supported by
evidence, shall be conclusive." See National Labor
Relations Board v., Waterman Steamship Corp., 309
U. S. 206.
Disestablishmentof Independent. Independent Union
of Craftsmen was organized within a few days after the
decision by this Court, on April 12, 1937, of National
Labor Relations Board v. Jones & Laughlin Steel Corp.,
301 U. S. 1, which upheld the constitutionality of the
Act. From 1933 down to that date the employer, LinkBelt Co., had maintained a company union, apparently
continuing to recognize it even after passage of the Act
in 1935 and even though under the Act it was concededly
an improper bargaining uinit. In any event, that union
remained in existence until Independent's membership
drive was successfully concluded. The organization of
Independent was conceived on April 12 and 13, 1937, by.
certain employees, who were disappointed at the decision
upholding the constitutionality of the Act. Linde, who
was a leader in organizing Independent, testified: "A.
The Wagner Act had been declared constitutional, and
a group of us were dismayed, I am frank to admit, or we
thought there was nothing for us to do. Q. Why were
you dismayed? A. I will tell you, we had banked our
hopes that it would be declared illegal, and immediately
the labor unrest ahd trouble would have stopped and our
company Would proceed and all the other companies
would proceed to enjoy the prosperity which we thought
was coming at that time." The membership drive tookplace in the main on April 14, 15, and 16, resulting in a
membership of 760 out of about 1,000 employees. The
constitution was drafted on April 17. On April 18, it

LABOR BOARD v. LINK-BELT CO.
584

Opinion of the Court.

was decided to seek dissolution of the old company union
and recognition of Independent. Accordingl, .on April
19 an agreemnnt was reached between the employee
representatives and' plant manager Berry dissolving the
old union; and he was asked to obtain exclusive recognition for Independent. That request was granted by the
employer on April 21; and Independent held its first
meeting on April 22..
An "inside" union, as well as an "outsiae" union, may
be the product of the right of the employees to selforganization and to collective bargaining "through representatives of their own choosing," guaranteed by § 7 of
the Act. The question here is whether the Board was
justified in concluding that Independent was not the
result of the employees' free choice because the -employer
had intruded to impair their freedom.
Respondents point to numerous earmarks of independence which Independent evidences. They emphasize
that after it was recognized it held many bargaining
conferences and as a result obtained wage increases,
changes in seniority policy, bonus payments for night
workers, a better vacation policy, better lighting and air
conditions, and improved -safety measures--in fact, all
of its major objectives except a closed shop. They stress
the facts that it is not financed by the employer, that its
meetings are held off company property, that its leadership is substantially different from the employee. representation in the old company union, and that its genesis
was a suggestion made not by the employer but by' a
group of employees.
In the latter connection they urge that the employees
chose Independent because that was the type of 'labor
organization which they honestly preferred; or as stated
by one of the employees who led the membership drive,
"It was so.big a feature that they (the employees) were
all anxious to get on the band wagon and do something.

588

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

311 U. S.

That was the general attitude." And they maintain that
there was in fact no connection between Independent and
the old company union; that the success of Independent's membership drive was not the result of aw compulsion or belief as respects the employer's attitude.
It would indeed be a rare case where the finders of
fact could probe the precise factors of motivation which
underlay each employee's choice. Normally, the conclusion that their choice was restrained by the employer's
interference must of necessity be based on the existence
of conditions or circumstances which the employer created or for which he was fairly responsible and as a
result of which it may reasonably be inferred that the
employees did not have that complete and unfettered
freedom of choice which the Act contemplates.
Here no one fact is conclusive. But the whole congeries of facts before the Board supports its findings.
The employer's attitude towards unions is relevant.
As we have indicated, it maintained a company union
both before and after the Act. And the court below sustained the Board's finding as to the employer's longstanding industrial espionage, through, the National
Metal Trades Association, .which continued at least until
an investigation was made late in 1936 by the La Follette
Committee of the Senate.' Further, the employer evidenced hostility towards an "outside" union. In 1936,
plant manager Berry told the board of the company
union that "in the event outside people came into our
plant and told us how to run the plant, then I had
enough of industry." At the hearing he testified that
he
meant "that the Link Belt Company was able and had
'Subcommittee of the Committee on. Education and Labor, United
States Senate, of which Senator Robert M. La Follette, Jr., was
Chairman. This Subcommittee acted pursuant to S. Res. 266, 74th
2;d Sess, and held extensivq hearings beginning in 1936.

LABOR BOARD v. LINK-BELT CO.
584

Opinion of the Court.

for many years ran their organization and we did not need
outside people to tell us how to run the plant economically and efficiently." In September, 1936, Salmons, an
employee of 14 years standing, who was an employee
representative in the company union. and who became
dissatisfied with it, initiated the formation of Amalgamated, an "outside" organization." Amalgamated held
its first organizing meeting on September 20, 1936.
Salmons was discharged the next, day by plant manager
Berry for !'spreading union propaganda around here."
He was given half an hour to leave. The employer does
not deny this but adds that Salmons was discharged because he engaged in union activities on company time.
That he did solicit on company time seems clear, though
it could hardly have been extensive as his foreman testified that 'he was not aware of it. Yet in his association with the company union, he apparently was allowed
a similar freedom. That fact, his position of leadership
in Amalgamated, the apparent absence of the customary
warning, his somewhat precipitate discharge, the .failure
of the employer to discharge representatives of Independent who, as. we shall see, solicited on company time
with the knowledge and approval of at least some of the
supervisors, made permissible the Board's conclusion
that Salmons' activity on behalf of the "outside" union
was the basic cause of his discharge.' On September 21,
1936, another employee, Novak, who had been employed
by the company for over 11 years, was also discharged
without warning by Berry, who believed, mistakenly it
would seem, that Novak was a member of and solicitor'
'See note 1, supra. Amalgamated apparently had about. 400 members before' Independent started its membership drive in April, 1937.
'Salmons was rehired on December 21, 1936, after mediation by
the Board on the understanding that he would not engage in union
activities on company time.

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

311 U. S.

for Amalgamated.
Berry gave him half an hour to get
out, after charging him with being "an organizer and instigator for a union"-a charge which Novak denied.'
The Board found and the court below sustained the finding that Novak was discharged in violation of the Act
because of hig alleged union activities. We agree.
Amalgamated, as well as Independent, solicited on
company time. But a review of the record indicates
that the instances of solicitation by Amalgamated on
company time were scattered over a period of months
and were apparently more sporadic than those of Independent. At least they do not appear to have had the
magnitude and intensity of the acts of solicitation on
company time by Independent. There is considerable
testimony by members of the supervisory staff that they
were instructed not to take sides in the union competition and not to allow solicitation on company time.
Plant manager Berry testified on direct examination that
those instructions were given after April 12, 1937; and
on cross-examination he admitted that they were given
only after April 19, 1937, at which time Independent had
acquired a membership of 760 men. It is argued here
that the employer warned solicitors for Independent and
threatened them with dismissal for engaging in union
activities on the company's time. And Froling, chairman of the company union and active solicitor for Inde"Novak was reinstated in January, 1937, with the understanding
that he would not engage in union activities on company time. According to him, the condition extended to union activities at all times.

According to the company, it covered only union activities on company time. The Board did not resolve the conflict but noted that Noyak as a result of his understanding, did not join Amalgamated until
after the Act had been upheld in April, 1937. Novak delayed accepting
the proposal of reinstatement because of the possible implication that
thereby he would tacitly admit that he had earlier engaged in union

LABOR BOARD v. LINK-BELT CO.
584

Opinion of the Court,

pendent, testified that he was wary about soliciting in the
plant on company time in front of foremen, for although
he did not remember any foreman warning him, he nevertheless was afraid of being discharged because of what
had happened to Salmons on account of his activities. It
is therefore contended that no discrimination in favor of
Independent can be inferred; that the quick success of
Independent in obtaining a majority was due not to the
employer's support but to the employees' enthusiasm ,for
that union. The Board stresses the fact that employee
representatives in the. company union were extremely.
active solicitors for Independent. It points out that at
least six of the employee representatives under the company union were active solicitors-Froling virtually admitting that he solicited the entire machine shop-i10
to 120 men-durin'g working hours. Kowatch, an employee, signed up between 100 and 250 men, about onefourth on company time and twice punched out his time
with the permission of the foreman to solicit in the foundry. The company counters with the fact that there
were many solicitors for Independent of whom those repfesentative.s were a mere minoritya-less than a third.
There is this to be said, however, about those conflicting
claims. Most of the company union representatives were
active and prominent in Independent's membership drive
and during that drive apparently enjoyed somewhat the
same privilege of moving freely about the plant which
they had been allowed as company union representatives-'a privilege withdrawn after Independent had been
recognized. The instances when -supervisors remonstrated with solicitors for Independent seem to be restricted to around six or seven in number, and some of
those related to activities after the April membership
drive was completed. As respects one of the latter instances, Linde, an employee soliciting for Independent,
stated that foremen warned the men: "'You are on union

OCTOBER TERM, 1940
Opinion of the Court.

311 U. S.

business. My God, don't let me catch you or we will
fire you,' or words to that effect." But, as the BoArd
concluded, it seems impossible to infer that, in view of
the extensive and intensive solicitation for Independent
in the plant on company time, the supervisory staff were
not aware of the campaign and did not acquiesce in it.
Beyond that is the active support of Independent by
some of the supervisory staff. There is abundant testimony that Siskauskis, a foreman, actively solicited for
Independent. One employee, Lackhouse, who earlier
had joined Amalgamated but who was soliciting for Independent in April 1937, testified:
"He took the sheets in my hand-the first sheet I had
already filled, with the heading on it, and I had nothing
but blank sheets left, and he went around the machines,
the molders right off the side floor .there, and he told
them to sign up for the Inside union here, and he signed
up I believe ten, and about five of them he signed up
in his own handwriting. The majority of them in the
foundry don't know how to write. Q. And did you see
him sign up these other men? A. I seen him sign up
actually about seven or eight, I am sure, in his own
handwriting. He went as far as one crane man who was
working right above him, and he was going up to him
and he was going to explain what it was all about, and
he says, 'Oh, heck, he don't know how to write,' so he
wrote down his name, too. I don't remember his name,
I know it was John, the crane man in his department.. I
just don't know his last name. Q. And then did Mr:
Shaskinskis (sic) give you back the paper? A. Yes, he
returned them back to me after he had the names on
'them."
This episode was confirmed at least in part by Johnson, an employeAnother employee, Balcauski, testified as follows respecting Siskauskig! solicitation:

LABOR BOARD v. LINK-BELT CO.
Opinion of the Court.

584

"He walked to me and he said, 'Stanley, why don't
you join in the C. I. O.'-I mean this here, the independent craftsmen's union. I said, 'I am already with the
C. I. 0.' He says, 'The hell with thq C. I. 0.' He
says, 'Join in with the craftsmen'S union.' He says, 'We
are going to have our u'nion.' Then I repeated, I says,
'Do you know under the Wagner Law that is not allowed
for the foreman to go and organize the workingmen on
the company time or on his own time?' He told me
this, he said, 'To hell with that.' So I says, 'If you want
to sign up independent, go ahead, I ain't going to waste
my time.' And I walked away."
Balcauski further testified respecting. Siskauskis' solicitation of employees: "He told them, 'If you don't sign
up'-I heard it with my own ears-he said, 'you are
going to get out of here.'"
Still another employee, Thomas, testified:
"Q. Did anybody ask you to join the Independent
Union? A. Everybody, Splitz (Siskauskis) comes to me
with piece of paper, sign your name. I say I can't sign
bay name. He says, 'All right, I sign it myself.' And
he signed it himself, my name. Q. Did he say anything
more to you about it? A. That is all that day. The.
second day he come around again. He say, 'Joe, sign
name.' I say, 'I sign yesterday.' He say, 'All right, it
is no good, I threw it away.' Q. It is no good, he threw
it away? A. Sure. I didn't sign no place. 'Joe,' he
say, 'Sign him up anyhow, or maybe lose job.' Q. Splitz
says to sign up or maybe you lose job? A. Yes. I says,
'I sign him up if you want to.' He come in Thursday
about this piece of paper again and he say, 'Joe, sign
name. I say, 'What is the matter, I sign him up twice,
I sign him up before yesterday and I sign him again.
He say, 'Something wrong, no good.' I say, 'I quit, I
don't want sign at all.' Q. You didn't want to sign? A.
276055 -41-38

594

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

311 U. S.

No. Q. You didn't sign either day? A. I don't sign.
At noontime he come to me and he say-I was by him
over there and he say, 'Come on, Joe, come in office
sometime, we want to see you.' Q. Did you go in the'
office? A. Yes ....
Q. Some man with a mustache
was sitting there? A. Yes, sir. He says, 'What you
want?' I say, 'Splitz sent me in office, you want something?' He said he didn't want nothing from me. Splitz
come in then and grabbed my hand, and he say, 'Give
him piece of paper.' He say, 'sign his name.' I can't
sign name, I say I will not sign. I said two times I sign,
I don't like it. He say, 'Sign anyhow.' Q. Who said
that? A. Splitz, 'Go ahead, sign again.' I say, *I am
going out, go to work.' Q. You did not sign? A. No.
A couple of times he come to me and say, 'Sign them
up.' I don't sign no place. A lot of people don't sign,
I no sign."
Bozurich, an employee, testified as follows with respect
to the attitude of Siskauskis towards Amalgamated:
"... then he went on with remarks that it would be
very bad if C. I. O. would come into the shop. And I
said, 'What would be bad about it?' I said, 'If the
workers want it who can stop them?' 'Well,' he said, 'if
C. I. 0. comes in the company will close the plant.' He
said, 'You see during the depression it was hard to be
without a job.' I said, 'Company can't lock--close the
shop because of the union.' I says, 'That would be
considered as a lock-out.' And he said, 'Who can stop
them?' Well,' I said, 'the government.' He said, 'The
company runs the plant and not the government.' I said,
'There is such a thing as government Labor Board here
who takes care of those members,' and I believe I referred
him to-well, to be exact, I read in the paper about a certain company somewhere in New York oy" New Jersey
that due to C. I. 0. activities closed their plant and

LABOR BOARD v. LINK-BELT CO.
584

595

Opinion of the Court.

moved the machinery out, things like that, to get away
from the union. So I call his attention to that, to the
best of my recollection from the newspaper, that the
Labor Board takes action; they. got company to put
machinery back. At least that is the way I understood
it so the illustration to him is that we are not afraid of
that kind. Then he twisted his lips and said 'Oh,' he
says, 'you better keep away from something like that,'
he said, 'and if you want anything it is best to go to boss
yourself.'"
There is also testimony that Siskauskis signed for illiterate employees, though, with one possible exception, apparently not against their will. Siskauskis denied that
he made any such statements or that he ever solicited for
Independent. The Board refused to believe that all the
opposing testimony was fabricated, and found his denials
unconvincing.
Lackhouse, an employee, testified that he obtained
permission from Nyberg, his foreman, to solicit for Independent, Nyberg saying, 'Well, if you have to, you have
to, Frank, so you might as well go ahead on it." Lackhouse was delayed about half an hour in getting started
when Olson, an assistant superintendent, took him aside
in a separate room and, according to Lackhouse, "compared the differences between the outside union and the
inside union; and he told me about it up there, how
much better off we would be if we organized amongst us
fellows, among our fellow workmen ourselves and kept
the outside union out, that you will never get anywhere
with them, just striking all the time, and give me the
differences, and I listened to him about it." Lackhouse
testified that thereupon he solicited in the plant during
working hours: "I was absent from my job from one,
o'clock until quitting time walking through the whole
foundry." On direct examination Olson denied this

596

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

311 U. S.

conversation. On cross-examination he admitted talking
briefly with Lackhouse about "a rumor that the boys are
trying to form an independent union." Nyberg was not
called. The Board believed Lackhouse.
There was considerable testimony, not denied, that
Belov, a night boss, also solicited for Independent.
According to one employee, Kalamarie, Belov did so on
written instructions left by foreman McKinney which
Kalamarie read. Kalamarie testified as follows respecting this conversation with Belov about those
instructions:
"Q. So when he (Belov) got this note to solicit for the
Independent Union he was a little bit puzzled by it and
he asked your advice about it? A. He did. Q. You
advised him that inasmuch as his superior officer, Mr.
MeKinney, had ordered him to do it, he had better go
ahead and do it? A. That is right, if he wanted to keep
his job, I imagine he should."
McKinney denied that he had left any such instructions,
though it apparently was his custom to leave written
instructions for the night bosses on things he wanted
done. Belov was not called. Because of that and because of the contradictory character of McKinney's
testimony on certain matters, the Board believed
Kalamarie.
Tomas, an employee, testified that his boss, Big Louie,
"a kind of assistant foreman," solicited for Independent
getting about ten signatures; that Big Louie told him
that "they were trying to get the C. I. 0. out of
there."
The court below was unable to find any evidence
from which it could be inferred that the employees did
not, with complete independence and freedom from
domination, interference or support of the employer,
form their own union. But we are of the opinion that

LABOR BOARD v. LINK-BELT CO.
584

Opinion of the Court.

the Court of Appeals in reaching that conclusion substituted its judgment on disputed facts for the Board's
judgment-a power which has been denied it by the Congress. Sec. 10 (e) provides that the "findings of the
Board as to the facts, if supported by evidence, shall be
conclusive." As we stated in National Labor Relations
Board v. Waterman Steamship Corp., supra, at pp. 208209: "...
Congress has left questions of law which arise
before the Board-but not more-ultimately to the traditional review of the judiciary. Not by accident, but in
line with a general policy, Congress has deemed it wise to
entrust the finding of facts to these specialized agencies.
it is essential that courts regard this division of responsibility which Congress as a matter of policy has embodied
in the very statute from which the Court of Appeals derived its jurisdiction to act." Congress entrusted the
Board, not the Courts, with the power to draw inferences
from the facts. National Labor Relations Board v.
Pennsylvania Greyhound Lines, 303 U; S. 261, 271;
National Labor Relations Board v. Falk Corp., 308 U. S.
453, 461. The Board, like other expert. agencies dealing
with specialized fields (see Rochester Telephone Corp. v.
Unjted States, 307 U. S. 125, 146; Swayne & Hoyt v.
United States, 300 U. S. 297, 304) has the function of appraising conflicting and circumstantial evidence, and the
weight and credibility of testimony.
The Board had the right to believe that the maintenance of the company union down to the date when Independent's membership drive was completed was not
a mere coincidence. The circumstantial evidence makes
credible the finding that complete freedom of choice on
the part of the employees was effectively forestalled by
maintenance of the company union by the employer
until its abandonment would coincide with the recognition of Independent. The declared hostility towards an

598

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

311 U. S.

"outside" union, the long practice of industrial espionage, the quick recognition of Independent, the support
given Independent's membership drive by some of the
supervisory staff, the prominence of company union representatives in that drive, the failure of the employer
to wipe the slate clean and announce that the employees
had a free "choice, the belated instructions to the supexvisory staff not to interfere-all corroborate the conclusion that the employer facilitated and aided the substitution of the union, which it preferred, for its old company
union. But respondents contend that there s no
evidence that the employees had a settled conviction
that the employer preferred a certain type of labor organization or that they were under compulsion from the
employer in choosing between Independent and Amalgamated. There were, however, forces at work in the
plant which make tenable the conclusion of the Board
that the employer had intruded so as effectively to restrain the employees' choice. The employer's attitude
towards an "outside" union coupled with the discharge
of Salmons and Novak for activities on behalf of Amalgamated would tend to have as potent an effect as direct
statements to the employees that they could not afford
to risk selection of Amalgamated. That the discrimination against Salmons had some effect is not denied, for
Froling, a witness for Independent, insisted that even he
furtively solicited for Independent because of the price
paid by Salmons. When that discrimination is contrasted to the apparent acquiescence by the management
in the open solicitation by Independent, we cannot say
that the Board was unjustified in the conclusion which
it drew. As we stated in International Association of
Machinists v. National Labor Relations Board, 311 U. S.
72, 78, "Slight suggestions as to the employers choice between unions may have telling effect among men who

LABOR BOARD v. LINK-BELT CO.
584

599

Opinion of ,he Court.

know the consequences of incurring that employer's
strong displeasure." Nor does the Board lack the power
to give weight to the activities of some of the supervisory employees on behalf of Independent, even though
they did not have the power to hire or to fire. As we
indicated in International Association of Machinists y.
National Labor Relations Board, supra, the strict rules
of respondeat superior are not applicable to such a situation. If the words or deeds of the supervisory employees, taken in their setting, were reasonably likely to
have restrained the employees' choice and if the employer may fairly be said to have been responsible for
them, they are a proper basis for the conclusion that the
employer did interfere. If the employees "would havejust cause to believe that solicitors professedly for a labor
organization were acting for and on behalf of the management, the Board would be justified in concluding that
they did not have the complete and unhampered freedom of choice which the Act contemplates." International Association of Machinists v. National Labor Relations Board, supra. Here such inferences were wholly
justified. The attitude of the employer towards an
"outside" organization was clearly conveyed. When
that was followed by solicitation for Independent on the
part of supervisors who had general authority over the
men, it would be unfair to conclude that the employees
did not feel an actual pressure from the management.
That fact, the failure of the employer to announce its
impartiality, its delay in advising the supervisors to remain neutral until Independent had acquired its majority,"the fivors shown Independent, the discharge of Salmons and Novak, its past urfion policy, all are part of the
imponderables which the Board was entitled to appraise.
The fact that these various forces at work were subtle
rather than direct does not mean that they were none-

oCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

311 U. S.

theless effective.. Intimations of an employer% preference, though subtle, may be as potent as outright threats
of discharge..
Respondents suggest that an order of disestablishment
would make Independent an innocent victim of the
employer's inaction or of its unwelcome action. It is
urged that the subsequent conduct of Independent demonstrates its independence and that an order directing the
employer to cease and desist all interference with the
employees and with Independent is wholly adequate for
the evil at hand. The Board, however, was not forced to
conclude that the subsequent activities of Independent
erased the effects of the employer's earlier discrimination,
any more than it was compelled to believe that the employer's later show of impartiality obliterated the consequences of its prior interference with the employees' freedom of choice. We cannot assume that the employees
will be free from improper restraints and will have the
complete freedom of choice which the Act contemplates
where the effect of the unfair labor practice is not completely dissipated. The Board not the courts determines
under this statutory scheme how the effect of unfair labor
practices may be expunged. 4ational Labor Relations
Boardv. PennsylvaniaGreyhound Lines, supra;National
Labor Relations Board v. Bradford Dyeing Assn., 310
U. S. 318; InternationalAssociation of Machinists v. National Labor Relations Board, supra.
The order of disestablishment must be enforced.
Discharges of Employees. The court below rejected
the finding of the Board that Salmons had -been discharged in violation of § 8 (1) and (3) of the Act. For
the reasons already stated, we think that the court erred
and that the Board was right.!
'The Board ordered no affirmative relief with respect to Salmons
as he had been reinstated under an agreement with the company that
he would not receive back pay.

LABOR BOARD v. LINK-BELT CO.
584

Opinion of the Court.

The Board found that in April, 1937, employment
manager Staskey conditioned the employment of Frank
Solinko upon the acceptance of membership in the Independent by his father, Pete Solinko; and that therefore the company had violated § 8 (3) of the-Act' The
Board credited the testimony of Pete and Frank Solinko
against testimopy of Staskey and an employee named
Kowatch. Kowatch was a solicitor for Independent
whom Pete Solinko said Staskey had told him to see.
Pete, a member of Amalgamated, joined Independent.
So did Frank, who later, however, joined Amalgamated.
The evidence is somewhat confusing. But even according to Staskey, Pete Solinko did show him an Independent card the day Frank was hired. The court below
noted that even if the testimony of Pete were true, the
conversation occurred two months before Frank was
hired; and even if it took place on the day he was hired,
then it was after Independent had been recognized by the
company as the bargaining agent for the employees. We
think, however, that the Board's finding was justified.
Whenever the conversation took place, the conditioning
of Frank's employment upon Pete's joining Independent
was a violation of § 8 (3) of the Act in absence of a valid
closed-shop agreement, not present here. Viewed in that
light, it also corroborates the conclusion of the Board that
the employer interfered with the collective bargaining
process by supporting Independent, though the episode
took place after Independent's membership drive was
completed.
Karbol and Cumorich were discharged May 19, 1937.
In April, 1937, Belov, according to their testimony, had
asked them to join Independent. They refused. In the
latter part of April, 1937, they joined Amalgamated.
'No affirmative relief was ordered as respects Pete Solinko, who
was laid off in January, 1938.

602

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

311 U. S.

The company's claim is that they were discharged for
unsatisfactory work after time studies had shown their
inefficiency and after the day foreman, McKinney, had
warned them that their work was not satisfactory. On
the other hand, they denied that anyone had given them
any such warning or had criticized their work; they testified that at the time of their discharge Belov stated that
they were good workmen and that he did not know why
they were discharged. The Board reviewed the time
studies and found they did not reveal with any degree
of precision the relative efficiency of the men. It concluded that they were discharged because they joined
Amalgamated. The evidence as to inefficiency is quite
inconclusive. The Board was justified in relying on circumstantial evidence of discrimination and was not required to deny relief because there was no direct evidence
that the employer knew these men had joined Amalgamated and was displeased or wanted to make an example
of them.
The court below also refused to enforce the Board's
order reinstating and making whole Kalamarie who was
discharged according to the Board because of his union
activities. He, like Karbol and Cumorich, did not
accede to the solicitation of Belov on behalf of Independent. He had joined Amalgamated in March, 1937,
was an active solicitor for it, and served on its grievance
committee. As a member of that committee, he called
on plant manager Berry to protest the lay-off of a union
man. Shortly'thereafter, Belov, Kalamarie's night boss,
received instructions from the day foreman to lay Kalamarie off for a week if his work did not improve.
November 30, 1937, he was permanently laid off for an
alleged lack of work as a welder and in connection with
a general reduction of employees. Until his promotion
as a welder a few months earlier Kalamarie for some time
had been an acetylene burner. He testified that when

LABOR BOARD v. LINK-BELT CO.
584

Opinion of the Court.

he took the job as welder, he was promised that he could
go back to burning without loss of his seniority rights if
welding ran out. This was denied by the foreman.
When he was laid off, men junior to him as burners were
retained. He protested. The company insists that the
refusal to restore Kalamarie to his old position as burner
was consistent with its occupational seniority policy.
On this there is some contradiction in the record. There
is testimony that under company practice an employee
retained (or at least might be given) his original seniority if he was promoted to another. position in the same
department. The reasons stated for not restoring Kalamarie to his old seniority position were that he did not
ask to be put back and that the company would have had
to lay off a burner senior to him. These statements were
contrary to the facts as found by the Board. On this
state of the record we think that the Board was justified
in concluding that Kalamarie was in fact discharged
because of his activities for Amalgamated.
The judgment is reversed and the cause is remanded
to the Circuit Court of Appeals with directions to enforce
the Board's order in full.
Reversed.
MR. JUsTICJD MCREYNOLDS took no part in the consideration or disposition of this case.

