49t

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
311 U. S.

Syllabus.

JACKSON, ATTORNEY GENERAL, ON BEHALF
OF THE UNITED STATES, AND AS SUCCESSOR
TO THE ALIEN PROPERTY CUSTODIAN, v.

IRVING TRUST CO., EXECUTOR,

ET AL.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 75. Argued December 19, 1940.-Decided January. 6, 1941.
1. An award of a District Court under the Trading with the Enemy
Act can not be attacked for alleged fraudulent collusion by a
inotion 6-n affidvits made to th4t court -after payment has been
made and the time for appeal has expired. Semble that the remedy would be by bill of review. P. 499..
2. Years after the rendition and payment of an award under § 9 (a)
of the Trading with the Enemy Act, from which no appeal was
taken, the Attorney General, on behalf of the United States and
as successor to the Alien Property Custodian, by a motion to the
District Court supported by affidavits, sought to have the judgment set aside for want of jurisdiction, on the ground that the
beneficial owner of the claim was an "enemy" as defined by that
Act and that, therefore, the suit was not authorized by-.the Act,
but was a suit against the United States without its consent.
Held:
(1) That the complaint in the suit stated a case within the terms
of the Act, and the District Court had jurisdiction to determine'every
issue 'necessary to the establishment of the claim. P. 500.
(2) That the status, enemy or non enemy, of the alleged beneficial owner, -upon which was based the "jurisdictional" question
of the motion,'hving been an issue raised by the pleadings and
proceedings in thence, was determinable by the District Court,
however labeled. P. 502.
(3) Whether the particular issue was actually litigated is immaterial in view of the necessary conclusion that there was full
opportunity to litigate it and that it was adjudicated by the
decree. P. 503.
(4) If the District Court had erred in dealing or in failing to
..deal with any issue involved, the remedy was by appeal. P. 503.
10 F. 2d 714. affirmed.

JACKSON v. IRVING TRUST CO.
494

Argument for Petitioner.

310 U. S. 621, to review the reversal of a
decree of the District Court, 27 F. Supp. 44, setting aside,
on motion, for want of jurisdiction, a former decree which
had been rendered under § 9 (a) of the Trading with
the Enemy Act.
CERTIORARI,

Assistant Attorney General Shea, with whom Solicitor
GeneralBiddle and Messrs. FrancisJ. McNamara, Melvin
H. Siegel, and Richard H. Demuth were on the brief, for
petitioner.
A suit under § 9 (a) of the Trading with the Enemy
Act is a suit against the United States; theDistrict Court
has jurisdiction over it only. to the extent to which the
United States has consented to be sued. One of the conditions imposed by this Act is that the suit shall be
brought by one who is not an "enemy." This condition
was plainly not met.
At the time when the suit was commenced, all the assets of the partnership of Crossman & Sielcken, including
'the claim sued on, had passed, pursuant to the partnership
agreement, to the estate of Sielckeh, and neither Sorenson nor Nielsen had any personal interest in the recovery.
It is clear, therefore, that the suit was brought on behalf
of Sielcken's estate. At the time of his death, Sieleken
was an "enemy." .The status of the estate was that of
an enemy. The estate owned the debt claim and was
the sole party interested in the recovery. It is, therefore,
perfectly apparent that the suit against the Custodian
on the claim was not one authorized by § 9 (a).
Since the District Court had no power in the case, its
judgment was void and was properly vacated on the
present motion. United States v. U. S. Fidelity & Guar.
anty Co., 309 U. S. 506.
The opposite conclusion reached by the court below
was based on the premise that the jurisdictional issue was
adjudicated in the original action and that therefore the
judgment entered was beyond attack, even though the

496

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

311 U. S.

court which entered it was entirely without jurisdiction.
This conclusion was thought to be required .by the decision in Stoll v. Gottlieb, 305 U. S.165. The court below
further held that the 1929 judgment was beyond attack
even if the jurisdictional issue was not adjudicated in the
original action. This ruling was thought to be required
by the decision in Chicot County Drainage District v.
Baxter State Bank, 308 U. S. 371. This court has since
held that a judgment rendered against the United States
without its consent is "void" and that such a judgment
is not res judicata of the jurisdiction of the court in which
it was rendered, at least where the. jurisdictional issue was
not adjudicated in the original suit. United States v.
U. S. Fidelity & Guaranty Co., supra. It is the Government's position that the present case falls directly within
the rule of the Fidelity & Guaranty Co. case.
The doctrine of res judicata may be subject to other
and competing policies. Here the private interest in the
finality of litigation must, we believe, yield to the public
policy which forbids suits against the United States without its consent, a policy peculiarly strong in the case of
this statute.
Moreover, amotion to vacate is not a collateral attack
but a method of direct review to which the doctrine of
res judicata is not applicable. The decree under review
was simply an exercise by the District Court of its plenary power to vacate its own judgments at any time for
want of jurisdiction.
Mr. Nathan L. Miller, with whom Messrs. Leonard
B. Smith and Selden Bacon were on the brief, for
respondents.
MR.CHIEF JUSTICE HUGHES

delivered the opinion of

the Court.
In a suit brought in the District Court of the United
States for the Southern District of New York under-

JACKSON v. IRVING TRUST CO.
494

Opinion of the Court.

§ 9 (a) of the Trading with the Enemy Act," a decree
was entered on December 30, 1929, directing payment to
the plaintiffs of a stated amount out of the property of a
German corporation which had been seized by the Alien
Property Custodian. There was no appeal and the
amount awarded was paid.
In 1938 the United States moved upon affidavits to set
aside the decree, contending that the court had been
witiout jurisdiction. The District Court granted the
motion upon that ground. 27 F. Supp. 44. The Circuit
Court of Appeals reversed and reinstated the original
decree. 109 F. 2d 714. Certiorari was granted. 310
U. S. 621.
It appears that the suit had been brought in 1927 by
John S. Sorenson and Thorlief S. B. Nielsen, as surviving
partners of the firm of Crossman & Sielcken. The bill
of complaint alleged that plaintiffs and Hermann
Sie!cken, the deceased partner, were citizens and residents
of the United States; that the partnership had its principal place of business in New York City and had not at
any time been a "resident" in enemy territory and had
noi been an enemy or ally of enemy within the meaning
of the Trading with the Enemy Act; that Zentral-Einkaufs-Gesellschaft, m. b. H., a German corporation described as Z. E. G., was indebted to Crossman & Sielcken
for cargoes purchased by the latter for Z. E. G. during
1915 and consigned to neutral ports where they had been
seized and condemned by the British Government; and
that the Alien Property Custodian had assets of Z. E.'G.
which had been seized under the Trading with the Enemy
Act. The bill prayed for a decree establishing the debt
claimed by the plaintiffs and ordering its payment to
them out of the property so held. The bill declared- that
it was filed pursuant to § 9 (a) of the Trading with
'40 Sta. 411, 419, as amended, 42 Stat. 1511.
276055 -41-32

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

311 U. S.

the Enemy Act and that the court had jurisdiction to
entertain it by virtue of the express terms of that
provision.
The defendants, the Alien Property Custodian and the
Treasurer of the United States appeared generally.
They moved to dismiss the bill on the grounds (1) that
it appeared affirmatively therefrom that no debt was
owing to the plaintiffs from any enemy whose property
had been seized and was then held, (2) that it appeared
affirmatively that no debt was owing to the plaintiffs
by Z. E. G., and (3) that the plaintiffs had not stated
facts sufficient to entitle them to equitable relief under
the provisions of the Act. The defendants qlso answered
denying knowledge as to the averments of the bill which
set forth the citizenship and residence of the plaintiffs
and Sielcken and the locus of the partnership, and those
concerning the transactions said to have given rise to
the debt. As an affirmative defense, it was alleged that
there were prior claims to the seized property of Z. E. G.
The latter being joined as defendant also answered putting in issue allegations relating to the claim and setting
up various affirmative defenses. One of these asserted
that plaintiffs did not have title to the cause of action,
since the Alien Property Custodian was alleged to have
seized the assets of Crossman & Sielcken as an enemy firm
because Sielcken resided in Germany and became an
enemy. Other defenses of Z. E. G. averred that the
partnership of Crossman & Sielcken had been dissolved
through the outbreak of the war, and that the claim
thereupon had passed to Sielcken and upon his death to
his German executors who had entered into an arbitration agreement with Z. E. G., and that the arbitrators
had found no liability on its part.
On the trial, at the close of the evidence on both sides,
defendants moved to dismiss upon the ground that plaintiffs had failed to prove their case. The District Court
denied the motions and held that the partnership had

JACKSON v. IRVING TRUST CO.
494

Opinion of the Court.

not been dissolved by the outbreak of the war and that
Z. E. G. was indebted as claimed; that the executors
of Sielcken in Germany had no authority to dispose of
a partnership asset which had come into existence long
prior to our entering the war; and that plaintiffs were
entitled to a decree for the relief prayed for. Decree
was entered accordingly.
, While the present motion to vacate the decree was
upon the sole ground that the court had no jurisdiction
to enter it, there was some attempt in the affidavits on
the motion to show that the decree was collusive. But,
as the Circuit Court of Appeals observed., there was no
bill of review presenting such a question and no justification for sgetting aside a decree upon that ground merely
upon affidavits. The Government expressly disclaims
any challenge to that ruling. As to the question of jurisdiction, the Circuit Court of Appeals held that the District Court upon the trial of the suit was obliged to
resolve disputed questions of fact and that its decision
that the jurisdictional facts were established could not
be attacked collaterally. Stoll v. Gottlieb, 305 U. S. 165;
Chicot County Drainage DPistrict v. Baxter State Bank,
308 U. S. 371.
Petitioner thus states the question upon, which review
is asked in this Court: "Whether an unappealed judgment against the Alien Property Custodian under Section 9 (a) of the Trading with the Enemy Act, on a
claim to recover for a debt, may be set aside for want
of jurisdiction on the ground that the beneficial owner
of the claim sued on was an 'enemy,' as defined by that
Act."
, Petitioner argues that the judgment was void since
it was not authorized by the Trading with the Enemy
Act and thus the suit was a suit against the United
States to which the United States had not consented and
over which, therefore, the District Court had no
jurisdiction.

500

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

311 U. S.

We hold the argument untenable. There is no question here of the sort presented in United States v. United
States Fidelity & Guaranty Co., 309 U. S. 506, of want
of consent to be sued or of an attempt on the part of
officials to waive the sovereign immunity. The United
States had expressly consented in § 9 (a) of the Trading

with the Enemy Act that suits might be brought by
a.non-enemy claimant to have his claim against an
enemy debtor satisfied out of the latter's property held
by the Alien Property Custodian. The pertinent parts
of the section are set forth in the margin.
2.eSec. 9 (a). Any person not an enemy or ally of enemy claiming
any interest, right, or title in any money or other property which
may have 'been conveyed, transferred, assigned, delivered, or paid to
the Alien Property Custodian or seized by him hereunder and held
by him or by the Treasurer of the United States, or to whom any
debt may be owing from an enemy or ally of enemy whose property
or any part thereof shall have been conveyed, transferred, assigned,
delivered, or paid to the Alien Property Custodian or seized by him
hereunder and held by him or by the Treasurer of the United States,
may file with the said custodian a notice of his claim under oath and in
*such form and containing such particulars as the said custodian shall
require; and the President, if application is made therefor by the
claimant, may order the payment, conveyance, transfer, assignment,
or delivery to sail claimant of the money or other property so held
by the Alien Property Custodian or by the Treasurer of the United
States, or of the interest therein to which the President shall determine said claimant is entitled: Provided, That no such order by the
President shall bar any person from the prosecution of any suit at
law or in equity against the claimant to establish any right, title, or
interest which he may have in such money or other property. If the
President shall not so order within sixty days after the filing of such
application or if the claimant shall have filed the notice as above
required and shall have made no application to the President, said
claimant ifiay institute a suit in equity in the Supreme Court of the
District of Columbia or in the district court of the United States
for the district in which such claimant resides, or, if a corporation,
where it has its principal place of business (to which suit the Mien
Property Custodian or the Treasurer of the United States, as the

JACKSON v. IRVING TRUST CO.
494

Opinion of the Court.

The statute provides that any person not an enemy
or ally of enemy I "claiming" any interest or right in the
property seized or to whom any debt may be owing by
the alien enemy may sue the Custodian and Treasurer.
He may sue "to establish the interest, right, title, or
debt so claimed." The court is to determine whether
his claim is established. If the claim is "so established,"
the court is to order the delivery of property or payment
"to which the court shall determine said claimant is
entitled." Nothing could be clearer than that in a suit
so brought the court is to determine every issue necessary
to the establishment of the claim.
The suit in question was precisely within the&terms
of the Act. It was a suit by plaintiffs Sorenson and
Nielsen as surviving partners, in which they alleged their
citizenship and residence in the United States (and this.
does not now appear to be questioned), to recover a
debt claimed to be owing to the firm by an enemy corporation. The allegations of the bill of complaint met
the requirements of the statute in every. respect. It
case may be, shall be made a party defendant), to establish the
interest, right, title, or debt so claimed, and if so established the court
shall order the payment; conveyance, transfer, assignment, or delivery
to said claimant of the money or other property so held by the Alien
Property Custodian or by thb Treasurer of the United States or the
interest therein to which the court shall determine said ctaimant is
entitled ...
" -"Section 2 of the Trading with the Enemy Act provides:
"Sec. 2. The word 'enemy,' as used herein, shall be deemed to
mean, for the purposes of such trading and of this Act, "(a) Any individual, partnership, or other body of individuals, of
any nationality, resident within the territory (including that occupied
by the military and naval forces) of any nation with which the
United States is at war, or resident outside the United States and
doing business within such territory, and any corporation incorporated
within such territory of any nation with which the United States is
at war or incorporated' within any country other than the United
States and doing business within such territory."

502

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

311 U. S.

set forth the plaintiffs' claim, their non-enemy status,
the transactions out of which their claim arose, and that
they had given notice of the claim as the statute required.
The denials of the answers and the affirmative defenses
presented issues which the court was competent to try.
All these issues were necessarily before the court in the
performance of its statutory duty to determine whether
the plaintiffs had established their claim to the debt.
Thus, the status of the plaintiffs, of the partnership, and
of Sielcken, the deceased partner, the effect of his death,
his interest in the assets under the partnership agreement, the nature of the transactions with Z. E. G.,
whether it was indebted to the firm and whether the
surviving partners were entitled to recover the debt, that
is, every issue which could be litigated in the suit was
.by the very terpxs of the Act submitted to the determination of the court.
Petitioner says,.that the jurisdictional point was not
contested or adjudicated at the trial. That, while the
defendants claimed that Sielcken was a resident of Germany at the time of the war, that he owned all the capital of the partnership, and that upon his death it was
the duty of the surviving partners to pay over to his
executor the capital, property and business of the firm;
it was nob suggested that these facts raised the jurisdictional issue. Petitioner urges that the District Judge
held that while Sielcken may have been an 'enemy' as
defined in the Act, 'he did not become an enemy within
the meaning of the dissolution doctrine, at least so far
as transactions occurring prior to the war were concerned.' And to support the argument, petitioner relies
upon a colloquy between the District Judge and counsel
in the course of the trial. Respondent rejoins that in
the same colloquy the District Judge observed that 'the
partnership agreement was between American citizens'
and that it did not follow from the war and the provisions
of the Trading with the Enemy Act that Sielcken was

JACKSON v. IRVING TRUST CO.
494

Opinion of the Court.

'an alien enemy in the sense that a national of the country with which we are at war is an alien enemy.' And
the District Judge further observed that the status of
the property in question 'had become fixed prior to the
war' and that it was not a consequence of the war that
the partnership was so far dissolved 'as to change the
rights with respect to that property.' From any point
of view, the colloquy affords no adequate basis for petitioner's contention. We agree with the Circuit Court
of Appeals that when the dismissal of the suit was asked
by counsel for the Government on the ground that
Sielcken: was an enemy under the Act, the issues thus
raised were the same as those which pertained to the socalled 'jurisdictional' question of right to sue under the
Trading with the Enemy Act.
By the provisions of that Act the jurisdiction of the
District Court attached when the suit was brought upon.
the claim which the plaintiffs as non-enemy claimants
set forth. However the issues were labeled the court was
authorized to determine them. Texas & Pacific Ry. Co.
v. Gulf, C. & S. F. Ry. Co., 270 U. S. 266, 274; Stoll v.
Gottlieb, supra, p. 171. And whether a particular issue
was actually litigated is immaterial in view"of the necessary conclusion that there wai full opportunity to litigate it and that it was adjudicated by the decree. Cromwell v. County of Sac, 94 U. S. 351, 352; Grubb v. Public
Utilities Commission, 281 U. S. 470, 479; Chicot County
DrainageDistrict v. Baxter State Bank, supra; Sunshine
Anthracite Coal Co. v. Adkins, 310 U. S. 381, 403. If the
District Court had erred in dealing, or in failing to deal,
with any issue thus involved, the remedy was by appeal
and no appeal was taken.
The judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals is
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE MURPHY took no part in the consideration and decision of this case.

