128

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the'Court.

311 U.S.

SMITH v. TEXAS.
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF CRIMINAL APPEALS OF TEXAS.
No. 33.

Argued November 14, 1940.-Decided November 25, 1940.

1. The conviction of a Negro upon an indictment returned by the
grand jury of a county in which, at the time of such return and long
prior. thereto, Negroes were intentionally and systematically
excluded from grand jury service, solely on account of their race
and color, .denies to him the equal protection of the laws, in violation of the Fourteenth Amendment of the Federal Constitution.
P. 132.
2. Upon review of a state court decision wherein a claim of a right
under the Federal Constitution was denied, this Court will examine
and appraise for itself the evidence relating to such right. P. 130.
3. The evidence in this case sustains the claim of racial discrimination in the selection of the grand jury by which the Negro defendant was indicted; and, whether such discrimination was accomplished ingeniously or ingenuously, his conviction was void. Pp. 130132.
136 S. W. 2d 842, reversed.

309 U. S. 651, to review the affirmance of
a judgment sentencing the petitioner upon his conviction
of a crime. Thb trial court had overruled a motion to
quash the indictment.
.CERTIORARI,

Mr. Sam W. Davis, with whom Messrs. William A.
Vinson and Harry W. Freeman were on the brief, for
petitioner.
Mr. George W. Barcus, Assistant Attorney General of
Texas, with whom Messrs. Gerald C. Mann, Attorney
General, and Lloyd Davidson, State Criminal Attorney,
were on the brief, for respondent.
MR. JusnC

BLACK delivered the opinion of the

Court.
In Harris County, Texas, where petitioner, a negro,
was indicted -and convicted of rape, negrdes,. constitute

SMITH v. TEXAS.
128

Opinion of the Court.'

over 20% of the population, and almost 10% of the polltax payers; a minimum of from three to six thousand
of them measurd up to the qualifications prescribed by
Texas statutes for grand jury service. The court clerk,
called as a state witness and testifying from court records
covering the years 1931 through 1938, showed that only 5
of the 384 grand jurors who served during that period were
negroes; that of 512 persons summoned for grand jury
duty, only 18 were negroes; that -of these 18, the names
of 13 appeared as the last name on the 16 man jury list,
the custom being to select the 12 man grand jury in the
order that the names appeared on the list; that of the
5 negroes summoned for grand jury service who were not
given the number 16, 4 were given numbers between 13
and 16, and 1 was number 6; that the result of this
numbering was that of the 18 negroes summoned, only
5 ever served, whereas 379 of the 494 white men summoned actually served; that of 32 grand juries empanelled, only 5 had negro members, while 27 had none;
that of these 5, the same individual served 3 times, so
that only 3 individual negroes served at all; that there
had been no negroes on any of the grand juries in 1938,
the year petitioner was indicted; that there had been
none on any of the grand juries in 1937; that the service
of negroes by years had been: 1931, 1; 1932, 2; 1933, 1;
1934, 1; 1935, none; 1936, 1; 1937, none.; 1938, none.
It is' petitioner's contention that his conviction was
based on an indictment obtained in violation of the provision of the Fourteenth Amendment that "No State shall
..
deny to any person within its jurisdiction the
equal protection of the laws." And the contention that
equal protection was denied him rests on a charge that
negroes were, in 1938 and long prior thereto, intentionally
and systematically excluded from grand jury service
solely on account Of their race and color. That a conviction based upon an indictment returned by a jury so
276056*°-41-----Q

130.

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

311 U. S.

selected is a denial of equal protection is well settled,1
and is not challenged by the state. But both the trial
court and the Texas Criminal Court of Appeals were of
opinion that the evidence failed to support the charge
of racial disctimiition. For that reason the Appellate
Court approved the trial court's action in denying petitioner's timely motion to quash the indictment. 2 But
the question decided rested upon a charge of denial of
equal protection, a basic right protected by the Federal
Constitution. And it is therefore our responsibility to
appraise the evidence as it relates to this constitutional
right.'
It is part of the established tradition in the use of
juries as. instruments of public justice that the jury be
a body truly representative of the community. For racial
discrimination to result in the exclusion from jury service
of, otherwise qualified groups not only violates our Constitution and the laws enacted under it' but is at war
with our basic concepts of a democratic society and a representative government. We must consider this record
in the light of these important principles. The fact that
the written words of a state's laws hold out a promise
that no such discrimination will be practiced is not
enough. The Fourteenth Amendment requires. that
equal protection to all must be given-not merely
promised.
Here, the Texas statutory scheme is not in itself unfair; it is capable of being carried Put with no racial dis'Pierre v. Louisiana, 306 U. S. 354; Martin v. Texas, 200 U. S. 316,
319; Carter v. Texas, 177 U. S. 442, 447.
2136 S. W. 2d
842.
'Chambers v. Florida, 309 U. S. 227, 228; Pierre v. Louisiana, 306
U. S. 354, 358; Norris v. Alabama, 294 U. S. 587, 590. *
'"No citizen possessing all other qualifications . . . shaif be disqualified for service as grand-or petit juror in any court of the United
States, or of any State, on account of race, color, or previous condition
of servitude; . . ." 18 Stat. 336, 8 U. S. C. § 44.

SMITH v. TEXAS.
128

Opinion of the Court.

crimination whatsoever.' But by reason of the wide discretion permissible in the various steps of the plan, it is
equally capable of being applied in such a manner as
practically to proscribe any group thought by the law's
administrators to be undesirable. And from the record
before us the conclusion is inescapable, that it is the latter
application
has prevailed in Harris' County. Chance
and accidentthat
alone could hardly have biought about the
listing for grand jury service of so few negroes from
among the thousands shown by the undisputed evidence
to possess the legal qualifications for jury service. Nor
could chance and accident have been responsible for the
combination of circumstances under which a negro's
name, when listed at all, almost invariably appeared as
number 16, and under which number 16 was never called
for service unless it proved impossible to obtain the
required jurors from the first 15 names on the list.
The state argues that the testimony of the commissioners themselves shows that there was no'arbitrary or
systematic exclusion. 'And it is true that two of.the three
commissioners who drew the September, 1938, panel testified to that effect.. Both of them admitted that they
did not select any negroes, although the subject 'was discussed but both categorically denied that they intentionally,. arbitrarily. or -systematically discriminated
against negro jurors as such. One said that their failure
'The statutory scheme is set out in the Texas Code of Criminal
Procedure, Articles 333-350. At each term 'of court, three grand jury
commissioners are appointed; at the time they are sworn in, the judge
instructs them as to their duties; they are required to take an oath
not knowingly to select a grand juror whom they believe unft or
unqualified; they .must then retire to a room in the court house, taking the county assessment roll with them; .while in that room they
-must select a grandjury of 16 men from different parts of the county;
they must next seal in an envelope the list of the 16, names selected;
thirty days before court meets the clerk is required to make a copy
of the list and deliver it to the sheriff; thereupon the sheriff must
summoi the jurors.

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Syllabus.

311 U. S.

to select negroes was because they did not know the
names of any who were qualified and the other said that
he was not personally acquainted with any member of
the negro race. This is, at best, the testimony of two
individuals who participated in drawing 1 out of the 32
jury panels discussed in the record. But even if their
testimony were given the greatest possible effect, and
their situation considered typical of that of the 94 commissioners who did not testify, we would still feel compelled to reverse the decision below. - What the Fourteenth Ameidment prohibits is racial discrimination in
the selection of grand juries. Where jury commissioners
limit those from whom grand juries are selected to their
own personal acquaintance, discrimination can arise
from commissioners who know no negroes as well as from
commissioners who know but eliminate them. If there
has been discrimination, whether accomplished ingeniously or ingenuously, the conviction cannot stand.
Reversed.
FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION v.
COLUMBIA BROADCASTING SYSTEM OF CALIFORNIA, INC.*
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.

No. 39. Argued November 15, 1940.-Decided November 25, 1940.
1. Section 402 (b) of the Communications Act of 1934, as amended,
does not authorize an appeal to the Court of Appeals for the
'District of Columbia from an order of the Federal Communications Commission denying an application Under § 310 (b) for
consent to the transfer of a radio station license. P. 134.
with No. 40, Federal Communications Commisson v.
Associated Broadcasters, Inc., also on writ of certiorari, 310 U. S.
617, to the Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia.
*Together

