U. S. v. NORTHERN PACIFIC RY. CO
295

Syllabus.

unlawful railroad extension. The statute gives no warrant for saying that the one may bring suit but that the
other can only ask some public body to bring it; and
neither interferes with the functions which the Com-

mission is authorized to perform and which, as we have
seen, are distinct from those assigned to the court by
§ 1 (20).
Maintenance of the suit by complainants is thus
within the fair meaning of the words of the statute. It
aids rather than obstructs the administration of the Act;
it effectuates the public policy of the Act and is within
the reason for permitting others than public agencies
to bring the suit. They are "parties in interest" to which
the statute refers.
Since the suit was properly brought the district court
should entertain and decide the petition of Kansas City
for intervention in the light of 28 U. S. C. § 45a and Rule
24 of the Rules of Civil Procedure.
The CHIEF JUSTICE and MR. JUSTICE REED concur in
this opinion.

UNITED STATES v. NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILWAY CO. ET AL.; and
NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILWAY CO. 'ET AL. V.
UNITED STATES.
APPEALS FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF WASHINGTON.

Nos. 3 and 4. Argued March 4, 5, 1940. No. 3, reargued October
15, 16, 1940.-Decided December 16, 1940.

1. In a suit under the Act of June 25, 1929, for an accounting, etc..
between the United States and the Northern Pacific Railway

Company, with respect to the land grants made by the United
States to that, company's preaecessor, decision on the following
propositions of the Government, each. advanced as a defense to

318

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Syllabus.

•311 U. S.

any relief for the company, are reserved, eight Justices who heard
the case being equally divided in opinion concerning them, viz.:
(a) That the obligations of the United States under the Act of
July 2, 1864, were avoided by the alleged failure of the grantee to
obtain bona fide subscriptions to its stock and payments thereon,
as the Act required. P. 335.
(b) That the grantee failed to build its whole railroad as
required by that Act, in as much as it did not locate or construct
it between Wallula and Portland, a distance of 225 miles, but
instead secured running rights over tracks of another company
connecting those two places. P. 336.
(c) That the grantee, by diverting to the building and support
of allegedly unjustified and unprofitable branch lines, funds which
it should have used to complete its main line, broke its contract
with the United States and thereby lost the right to make further
lieu selections of land. P. 336.
(d) That the grantee broke its contract with the United States
by refusing to open land granted it by the Resolution of 1870 to
settlement and preemption at $2.50 per acre, and is therefore not
entitled to any relief in this case. P. 337.
(e) That, through unauthorized preliminary withdrawals of
place and indemnity lands made by .the Secretary of the Interior
in the interest of the grants, the grantee and its successor received
benefits, lands and values to which they were not entitled, precluding any award to the railroad company in this case. P. 339.
(f) That foreclosures and reorganizations affecting the railroad
company and its property debarred the company from selecting
more lieu lands. P. 340.

2. Under the Act of July 2, 1864, and the Joint Resolution of
May 31, 1870, granting land to the Northern Pacific Railroad
Company, land in the indemnity limits was not subject to selection, in lieu of land lost in the place limits, until identified as oddnumbered sections by an official survey; nor could mineral land
be selected. P. 342.
3. In determining the existence and extent of deficiencies in these
grants on the dates of withdrawals by the Government of land
in the indemnity limits for forestry and other purposes, tracts
unsurveyed, or classified as mineral, are not to be counted as
then available for selection by the railroad. P. 342.

U. S. v. NORTHERN PACIFIC RY. CO.
317

319

Syllabus.

4. The fact that by the terms of the granting Acts the land in the
indemnity limits was, before survey, subject to be taken by preemptors and settlers, whereby ultimate satiifaction of the grants
might be defeated, did not justify the Government in reserving
such land to itself and thus rendering it impossible for the company
to obtain it. United States v. Northern Pacific Railway Co.,
256 U. S. 51. P. 344.
5. The right of the railroad company, under the Act of June 25,
1929, to be indemnified for deficiencies in its grants caused by
governmental reservations of land within the indemnity limits
does not depend upon proof being made by the company that, but
for the withdrawals, it would have selected tracts so reserved, and
what tracts it would have selected. P. 346.
The company's right of selection, to the extent of the deficiencies
in the grants, remained available as to the withdrawn lands provided the lands selected were such as are defined in the grants.
The Government's contention that no one can say how soon the
lands would have been surveyed and selected if they had not
been -withdrawn and reserved, or what areas would have been.
taken up by settlers and preimptors if there had been no withdrawals or sur-eys, does not avail to abrogate or qualify the
company's right to exercise its privilege of selection notwithstanding
the withdrawals. Moreover, the argument ignores the repeal of
the preemption laws by the Act of March 3, 1891. P. 347.
6. The Indian Treaties of September 17, 1851 (Fort Laramie), and
October 17, 1855 (Blackfeet), which purport to "reserve" vast
tracts of the Indian Country, did not create technical reservations
but merely demarked the areas to be occupied by the respective
tribes, the object being to promote peace among them and between
them and the United States. The status of the land as ."Indian
Country," owned by the United States subject to the Indian right
of occupancy, was not altered. P. 347.
7. Land along the definite location of the Northern Pacific where it
traversed areas described in these treaties was not "reserved"
within the meaning of §'3 of the Act of 1864; and the undertaking
of the United States to extinguish the Indian title (§ 2 of that
Act) applied not only to the right-of-way but also to the lands
in the place and indemnity limits. P. 348.
8. The allegations of the Government bill do not support its contention jthat the railroad company should be charged in this case
with a large amount of land alleged to have been obtained illegally,

320

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Syllabus.

311 U. S.

as a result of the company's having adopted an unnecessarily
circuitous route between certain points of its line in the Territory
of Washington. P. 349.
9. The Railroad was entitled, under the Act of 1864 and the Resolution of 1870, to make selections of land in the second indemnity
limits in Montana in lieu of place sections lost to it as a result
of the creation, in 1868, out of country described in the Treaty
of 1851, supra, of the Crow Reservation-a typical Indian Reservation. P. 352.
10. The addition of lands in the Railroad's indemnity limits to the
Northern Cheyenne Indian Reservation in Montana, by Executive
Order of March 19, 1900, confirmed by Act of Congress of June 3,.
1926, was a withdrawal of such lands as a "Government reservation" and for "governmental purposes" within the intent of the
Act of June 25, 1929; and within the meaning of that Act such
lands were, on June 5, 1924, lands embraced within the exterior
boundaries of a Government reservation, for which the Railroad
is entitled to claim compensation. P. 353.
11. Lands in the Northern Pacific indemnity limits which, after
being reserved by the Government for forestry and other purposes,
,were filed upon by homesteaders before June 5, 1924, and were
patented to them after that date, are lands for which the Act of
June 25, 1929 awards indemnity, as lands which on June 5, 1924,
were embraced in a Government reservation, and which, in the
event of a deficiency of the Railroad's grants on the date of withdrawal for governmental purposes, "would be, or were" available for
selection. P. 354.
12. Under the Act of February 26, 1895, Government Commissioners
undertook to examine and to classify as mineral or non-mineral all
lands within the place and indemnity limits of the Northern Pacific
Railroad in four land districts of Montana and Idaho, and made
their reports, which were accepted and approved by the Secretary
of the Interior. In lieu of place sections so classified as mineral,
the Railroad obtained patents for much indemnity land and in this
* suit claims credit for more. The Government alleges and the
Railroad denies that the Commissioners were persuaded by fraudulent practices of the Railroad to classify as mineral, lands of
little value so that the Railroad could select more valuable tracts
in lieu. Held':
(1) Under the Act of June 25, 1929, this issue of fraud should
go to trial. P. 355.

U. S. v. NORTHERN PACIFIC RY. CO.
317

321

Syllabus.

(2) Although it was alleged, and found by the court below, that
the Commissioners could not possibly examine and classify the
lands within the time limited by the Act of 1895, their reports and
the approval and acceptance of them by the Secretary of the
Interior, create a prima facie showing in favor of the classification
and of the Railroad's indemnity selections based thereon. P. 358.
(3) The burden of proving the fraud alleged is on the United
States. P. 358.
(4) The United States is not barred by laches or estoppel from
asserting and proving the alleged fraud, and from having the
Railroad charged with any lands or values received as a result of
it. P. 358.
13. The "agricultural" land which the Railroad was entitled to
select under the Act of 1864 in lieu of mineral land is such land
as, by Land Office practice and public land laws, would have been
available to individuals for clearing and subsequent cultivation,
or for grazing, or for any other purpose commonly classified by the
Land Office as coming within the preemption and homestead laws;
but it does not include land valuable solely for timber. P. 358.
14. The United States is liable to account to the Railroad for lands
in indemnity limits which the Railroad could have selected if and
when surveyed, had they not been withdrawn by the Government.
P. 364.
15. In as much as, under the Act of 1929, the Railroad's right to
compensation depends upon the availability of lands on the dates
of the withdrawals for governmental purposes, the claim of the
Government that subsequent restorations of withdrawn lands to
the public domain, sufficient in area to make up the deficiency
created by the withdrawals, defeated the Railroad's claim to choose
lands within the withdrawal areas, is not sustained, in the light of the
facts. P. 365.
16. For any financial detriment to the United States or financial
benefit to the company that the Government may prove to have
resulted from the action of the Department of the Interior in
prematurely withdrawing lands in the place and indemnity limits
from settlement and preemption, the company should be charged
and the United States credited, under § 6 of the Act of June 25,
1929. P. 366.
17. The proviso of the Resolution of 1870, requiring that granted
lands be opened by the company to settlement and preemption
276055°-41-21

322

OCTOBER TERM,, 1940.
Syllabus.

311 U. S.

applies only to the additional lands granted by that Resolution
and not to lands acquired under the grant of 1864. P. 367.
18. The company was not a trustee of such lands for the United
States either in its own right or in behalf of possible settlers. It
results that the Government can not call upon the company to
account as a trustee for the proceeds of sale of the lands. P. 368.
19. The proviso of the Resolution of 1870 required the company to
open the lands granted by the Resolution to preemption and settleihent at the expiration of five years from the completion of the
entire road in 1887, whether the lands were then subject to mortgage or not; its failure so to do was a breach of its contract with
the United States; and the Government is entitled to prove, if it
can, any damage to it, or advantage to the company, which
resulted from this breach of contract. P. 368.
20. The company's right to receive patents for indemnity lands
outside of the reserves for which selections were filed with the
Department of the Interior prior to June 5, 1924, can not be
attacked in this suit upon the ground that the bases were fraudulently classified as mineral, for the reason, amongst others, that the
bill prays no affirmative relief in respect of such alleged fraudulent
classification. P. 369.
21. The Government objected to a part of the decree below directing
that the company receive patents to certain indemnity lands
selected prior to June 5, 1924, basing the objection on the ground
that the company had not assigned bases for selections. Held
that *the point is not open fo" argument, it not having been
preserved in the record. P. 370.
22-. The Resolution of 1870, in authorizing location and construction
of the Northern Pacific line from Portland to Tacoma "under
the provisions and with the privileges, grants and duties provided
for in its [the company's] act of incorporatioh," made a new
grant with place and indemnity limits of the same width as those
prescribed for the railroad built under the charter Act of 1864.
P. 372.
23. The Land Office construed the Resolution of 1870 as requiring
Ithe laying down of second indemnity limits for the PortlandTacoma line. P. 375.24. Such grants are not quantity grants, but grants of lands "in
place" or by description. P. 375.
25. The lands in place limits, granted to the Northern Pacific under
the Act of 1864 in aid of its "Cascade Line," which are embraced

U. S. v. NORTHERN PACIFIC RY. CO.
317

323

Counsel for Parties.

also in the place limits of the grant made to the same company

by the Resolution of 1870 in aid of the later Portland-Tacoma
line, are not lands "granted or disposed of by the United States"
prior to the later grant for which the company was entitled by
that Resolution, to make indemnity selections. P. 376.
Affirmed in part; reversed in part.

THESE were cross appeals under a special Act of May
22, 1936, from a decree of the District Court, in a suit
brought by the Attorney General pursuant to an Act of
June 25, 1929, to determine all controversies between the
United States and the Northern Pacific Railway Company, and to obtain an accounting, etc., in respect of
the land grants made to that company's predecessor in
aid of the construction of the railroad. The Bill named as
parties defendant, Northern Pacific Railway Company,
Northern Pacific Railroad Company, "Northern Pacific
Railroad Company, as reorganized in 1875," Northwestern
Improvement Company, Bankers Trust Company, Guaranty Triist Company, and City Bank Farmers Trust
Company. The Guaranty Trust Company disclaimed.
Mr. Edward F McClennen and Assistant Attorney
General Littell, with whom Solicitor General Biddle, and
Messrs. Walter L. Pope, E. E. Danly, and Robert K. McConnaughey, and Miss Margaret A. Shea were on the
brief, for the United States on the original argument in
Nos. 3 and 4. Mr. FrederickBernays Wiener, with whom
Solicitor General Biddle, Assistant Attorneys General
Shea and Littell, and Mr. E. ,E. Danly and Miss Margaret A. Shea were on the brief, for the United States
on the reargument in No. 3.
Messrs. John W. Davis and Lorenzo B. daPonte, with
whom Messrs. Grandin Tracy Vought, Alfred N. Heuston,
and John B. Marsh were on the briefs, for the Northern
Pacific Railway Company et al. on the original argument
in Nos. 3 and 4 and on the reargument in No. 3.

324

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

311 U. S.

MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS delivered the opinion of the

.Court.
The cause brought here by these appeals involves the
correlative rights of the United States and the Northern
Pacific Railway Company arising out of the land grants
in aid of the Northern Pacific Railroad Company.
By an Act of July 2, 1864,1 designated persons were
created a body corporate, Northern Pacific Railroad
Company, which was authorized and empowered to lay
out, locate, construct, and maintain a continuous railroad and telegraph tine from a point on Lake Superior
to Puget Sound, with a branch via the valley of the
Columbia River, to.a point at or near Portland, Oregon.
(§ 1.)
The Act granted a right of way through the public
lands, with additional lands for stations, etc., and the
United States agreed that it would extinguish, as rapidly as consistent with public policy and the welfare of
the Indians, the Indian title to all lands falling under
-the operation of the Act and "acquired in the donation
to the [road]." (§ 2.)
In aid of construction, and to secure transportation of
mail, troops, munitions, and public stores, every alternate section of public land, not mineral, was granted
to the amount of twenty sections pei mile on each side
of the line through territories, and ten sections per mile
through states.. In case any of these sections had been
granted, sold, occupied by homestead settlers, or otherwise disposed of at the time of definite location of the
railroad opposite such sections, the company was to be
entitled to select, in lieu thereof, alternate odd-pumbered
sections not more than ten miles beyond the limits of
the grant. In lieu of mineral lands, the company might
1 13

Stat. 365.

U. S. v. NORTHERN PACIFIC RY. CO.
317

325

Opinion of the Court.

select a like quantity of agricultural lands "nearest to
the line of said road and within fifty miles thereof."

(§ 3.)
Whenever twenty-five consecutive miles of any portion of the railroad and telegraph became ready for
service, the President was to appoint three Commissioners to examine the same and, upon their favorable report,
patents were to be issued to the company for the lands
opposite the completed sections. This procedure was to
be repeated as each section of twenty-fivd miles was
completed. (§ 4.)
The grant was subject to the conditions that the
company should commence work within two years and
complete not less than fifty miles per year after the
expiration of the second year, and complete and equip
the whole road by July 4, 1876. (§ 8.) In the event of
a breach of these conditions, not cured within one year,
the United States might "do any and all acts and things
which may be needful and necessary to insure a speedy
completion of the said road." (§ 9.)
The capital stock was to be publicly offered to the
people of the United States; no mortgage or construction bonds were to be issued, or any mortgage lien created, except with the consent of Congress. (§ 10.) The
road was to be a post and military road, for the use of
the United States, subject to regulations imposed by
Congress restricting the charges for such use. (§ 11.)
The acceptance of the terms of the Act was to be
signified in writing by the board of directors of the company within two years after the passage of the Act.
(§ 12.)
Unless the company should obtain bona fide subscriptions to its stock in the amount of $2,000,000,with ten
per cent. paid, within two years from the approval of
the Act, the Act was to be null and void. (§ 19.)

326

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

311 U. S.

Congress reserved power "at any time, having due
regard for the rights of said Northern Pacific Railroad
Company," to "add to, alter, ame~t, or repeal" the Act.
(§ 20.)
The company claimed to have been duly organized
and the incorporators filed the acceptance provided for
in § 12.within two years.
The belief that the road co4d be financed by popular
stock subscriptions proved uAfounded. The time for
commencinj and completing the road was twice extended 2 The date ultimately fixed for final completion
was July 4, 1879. The tentative route adopted by the
company showed a line reaqing to Puget Sound via the
Yakima River. Ultimate#] the line was so definitely
located and constructed. In 1869 Congress gave consent
to the issue of mortgage bonds,' and also authorized the
company to extend a branch life from a point at or near
Portland to a suitable point on Puget Sound and to
connect the branch with the main line west of the Cascade Mountains but Made no land grant except for the
right of way.' The company did not avail itself of either
of the privileges granted. May 31, 1870, Congress again
authorized the company to issue bonds to aid in the
construction and equipment of its road, to be secured by
mortgage on all of its property, railroad, land grant,
and franchise to be a corporation. It further authorized the location and construction of the main railroad
via the valley of the Columbia River to Puget Sound
and of a branch from the main line across the Cascade
Mountains to Puget Sound, and made a grant of land. in
eonnection with the construction authorized between
P6rtland and Puget Sound, on the same terms as the
original grant. It also provided a second indemnity belt
'14 Stat. 355; 15 Stat. 255.
15 Stat. 346.
\'16 Stat. 57.

U. S. v. NORTHERN PACIFIC RY. CO.
317

327

Opinion of the Court.

extending ten miles beyond the first on either side of the
right of way.'
Pursuant to this authority the company created bonds,
secured by mortgage of the railroad and land grant.
By December 30, 1871, the line was completed from
Carlton, Minnesota, to the Red River at Moorhead; by
the spring of 1873 it was completed to the Missouri
River at Bismarck, a total distance of four hundred and
twenty-four miles. During the same period the road
from Portland to Puget Sound was constructed from
Kalama, Washington, to Tacoma, a distance of one hundred and six miles. The land grant concomitant to this
construction amounted to approximately ten million
acres.
The panic of 1873 caused cessation of construction;
the company was short of funds; a receiver was appointed and a reorganization effected whereby a bondholders' committee purchased at foreclosure sale, and,
jointly with the receiver, reconveyed the property to
the company.
Construction was resumed in 1879 and reached the
Yellowstone River in Montana in 1880. In 1879 the
company began building eastward at Ainsworth in Washington Territory. The road from Carlton, Minnesota,
to Ashland on Lake Superior was completed in 1883.
Eastward and westward extensions met at a point in
Montana in August 1883. The Cascade Branch from
Pasco to Tacoma was completed in 1887. The company,
by contract with the Oregon Railroad and Navigation
Company, obtained the right to use the line of the latter
from Wallula to Portland where it connected with the
line to Puget Sound. As sections of twenty-five miles
were completed, Commissioners were appointed, examined the road, reported favorably, and the construction
was accepted by the President.
Joint Resolution of May 31, 1870, 16 Stat. 378.

328

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

311 U. S.

The corporation chartered by Congress operated the
road until receivers were appointed in 1893. Pursuant
to foreclosure proceedings the Northern Pacific Railway
Company acquired title to the railroad, the land grant,
sand all other property of the original corporation and
has since operated the road and obtained patents for
millions of acres under the land grants.
The grant of 1864 was of the ten nearest alternate
odd-numbered sections of public land, not mineral, on
each side of every mile of the line as definitely located,
in a state, and of twenty such sections in a territory.
This grant was in praesenti6 The lands thus granted
are spoken of as "place lands." They were in two belts
each twenty miles wide in states, and forty in territories,
parallel to the right of way.
Excepted from the grant were lands reserved, granted,
appropriated, pre-empted, or subject to other claims and
rights at the date of definite location. These exempted
lands are "spoken of as "lands lost to the grant." In lieu
of such lost lands the Act provided that other lands
were to be selected by the company, under the direction
of the Secretary of the Interior, from odd-numbered
sections not more than ,ten miles beyond the place lands,
on each side of the road. The two ten-mile strips thus
defined are spoken of as "the first indemnity belts" or
"the first indemnity limits."
The . Resolution of May 31, 1870 granted, as respects
the additional line authorized between Portland and
Puget Sound, place and indemnity lands, as granted for
the original line by the Act of 1864. It also authorized
what are spoken of as "second indemnity" belts ten miles
wide, on either side of the original indemnity limits, in
any state or territory in which the company could not
obtain the number of sections intended for it by its
St. Patd & Pacific R. Co. v. Northern Pacific R. Co., 139 U. S.

1, 5.

U. S. v. NORTHERN PACIFIC RY. CO.
317

329

Opinion of the Court.

charter.

This additional grant, however, was condi-

tioned that lieu lands in the second indemnity limits
might be chosen only in the same state or territory in
which place lands were lost to the grant.
Mineral lands are excepted from both grants. In-lieu
of lands lost because of their mineral character the legislation permits selection of agricultural lands within fifty
miles on either side of the right of way. These fifty
mile strips are known as "the mineral indemnity belts."
Their exterior limits coincide with the exterior limits of
the first indemnity belt in territories and lie terf miles
beyond the exterior limits of the'second indejnnity belts
in states.
"The ultimate obligation of the Government in. respect of the indemnity lands is on the same plane as that
respecting the lands in-place. The only difference is in
the mode of identification. Those in place are identified by filing the map of definite location, and the indem-,
nity lands by selections made in lieu of losses in the
place limits."
Since the grant excluded mineral lands and gave agricultural lands in lieu thereof, but made no provision
for the determination of the character of the lands, Congress passed an Act of February 26, 1895,8 which directed
that the mineral character of the lands should be ascertained by a classification by commissioners appointed by
the President which, when approved by the Secretary of
the Interior, should be final except in case of fraud.
Such a classification was made, whereby approximately
3,782,377 acres of place lands and more than 1,000,000 acres of indemnity lands, were ascertained to be
mineral.
Between March 1, 1898, and May 15, 1924, 1,103,424
acres in the first indemnity limits, under the 1864 grant,
Payne v: Central Pacific Ry. Co., 255 U., S. 228, 236.

'28 Stat. 683.

330

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinioni of the Court.

311 U.S.

and 961,992 acres in second indemnity limits of the same
grant, were withdrawn and placed in national forests
and other Government reservations. During the same
period 155,727 acres from the first indemnity limits of
the grant of 1870, and 213,001 acres from the second
indemnity limits laid down under that grant, were withdrawn for the same purposes. This action was taken, in
the main, pursuant to an Act of March 3, 1891.'
The company sought to select indemnity lands within
the reservations but the Secretary of the Interior would
not accept or approve the selections and the company
was unable, by litigation, to compel action favorable
to it."° In 1905, however, the company filed a selection
list for over five thousand acres of surveyed lands in a
Government forest reserve in Montana. The list was
approved and the Secretary of the Interior issued patents. Subsequently, upon discovering that these lands
were within the forest reserve, the United States brought
suit to cancel the p ,tents. The case reached this court,"
which held that the Act of 1864, and the Resolution of,
1870, embodied an offer that, if the company would
construct and operate the railroad, it should receive the
granted lands; that this offer had ripened into a contract
by the company's acceptance and performance; that the
promise of indemnity for granted lands not available to
the company was a vested right protected from destruction; that, though the lands in the indemnity belts were
open to acquisition by settlers before survey, they were
open to selection by the company only after survey; and,
finally, that withdrawals of indemnity lands for governmental purposes were invalid unless, at the time of withdrawal, there remained nonmineral lands available for
selection sufficient to satisfy prior losses to the company
'26 Stat. 1095, 1103; 16 U. S. C. 471.
Northern Pacific Ry. Co. v. Lane, 46 App. D. C. 434.
United States v. Northern Pacific Ry. Co.,. 256 U. S. 51.

U. S. v. NORTHERN PACIFIC RY. CO.

331

Opinion of the Court.

317

from the grant. The measure of the grant was held to
be the aggregate of the odd-numbered sections within
the place limits, subject to certain deductions not here
material. Although a stipulation had been filed as to
the measure of the grant, the court held that, since the
evidence did not disclose that certain necessary deductions from the grant had been made to ascertain the net
amount of land to which the company was entitled, the
case was not ripe for judgment. Accordingly the cause
was remanded for a determination of the alleged deficiency in the grant and for further proceedings dependent upon such determination.
The Department of Agriculture, which was charged
with the administration of the forest reserves, realized
that if the company's claims as to the deficiency in the
grant, with consequent right of selection of withdrawn
lands as indemnity, were sustained, much of the land
in the forest reserves would be diverted from -the purpose
intended by their reservation. The Forester of the
United States called the situation to the attention of the
Secretary of the Interior and suggested that the latter
should investigate a number of questions affecting the
company's claims. The Land Office, with the codperation of the company, undertook an adjustment of the
grant and a tentative adjustment was prepared. The
Forester raised many objections. Ultimately the Secretary of Agriculture, and the Secretary of the Interior,
called the situation to the attention of the President
and he and they communicated with Congress. As a
result, that body adopted a Joint Resolution on June 5,
1924,12 directing the Secretary of the Interior to withhold approval of any adjustment of the company's land
grants and to withhold the issue of further patents; and
appointing a Joint Committee to make an investigation
.of the grants and to report its conclusions and recom1243

Stat. 461.

3OCTOBER TERM, 1940.

332

Opinion of the Court.

311 U. S.

mendations to Congress. This Committee held protracted hearings, at which the Government departmen s
and the company were represented, and presented evidence amounting .to over five thousand printed pages.
In April 1929 the Committee rendered its report 13 recommending passage of a bill authorizing the institution
of proeeedings by the Attorney General to procure "a
final and complete determination of the respective rights
of the United States and the Northern Pacific Railway
Co. to the end that the grants shall be finally adjusted
and the interests of the United States and the grantee
shall be fully protected." The result was the Act of
June 25, 1929.14 The title indicates that the purpose of
the Act was to alter and amend the Act of July 2,,1864,
and the Resolution of May 31, 1870; "to declare forfeited to the United States certain claimed rights asserted" by the company; and "to direct the institut-n
and prosecution of proceedings looking to the adjustment of the grant."
The Act retains for the United States, free of claim
by the company, and removes from the grant, any lands
within the indemnity limits which, on June 5, 1924, were
within the boundaries of any national forest or other
Government reservation and which, on the date of withdrawals for governmental purposes, would be, or were,
available to the company, by indemnity selection or
otherwise, in satisfaction of any deficiency; and directs
that the company shall have from the United States
such compensation, if any, as the courts hold due for the
loss of such lands. (§ 1.)
It declares that all unsatisfied indemnity selection
rights, if any exist, claimed by the company, are forfeited to the United States. (§ 2.) It reserves the right
to amend ana repeal the charter act and supplementary
S. Rep. No. 5,71st Cong., 1st Sess.
.1146 Stat. 41.

U. S. v. NORTHERN PACIFIC RY. CO.
317

333

Opinion of the Court.

resolution and asserts the adherence of Congress to 'the
original policy with respect to the company's disposi-.
tion of granted lands. Right of way lands and those in
good faith employed in the operation of the railroad are
excluded from the declared forfeiture. (§§ 3, 4.)
1 It directs the Attorney General to bring suit to remo-ve
the cloud of the company's claims upon any lands of
the United States; to determine all controversies between the United States and the company, and to obtain
a full accounting of what the company may be entitled
to recover, and what the United States may be' entitled
to recover; to find and determine the extent of the performance by the United States, and by -the company,
of the terms of the granting Acts and wiat lands, if any,
have been patented or certified as a result of fraud, mistake of law or fact, or legisltive or administrative misapprehension; and, finally, to determine all questions of
law and fact germane to a complete adjudication of the
respective rights under the granting act and resolution,
and all other questions of law and fact presented to the
Committee. (§ 5.)
It lays down, in general terms, the considerations
which are to govern in the mutual account to be taken
between the United States and the company and empowers the court to render such judgments and decrees
as law and equity may require. (§ 6.)
It establishes the venue for the trial of the suit,'ard
for appeal, and provides that a reasonable time shall be
fixed by the court within which Congress may adopt appropriate legislation to meet the requirements of the
judgment. (§ 7.)
It requires reports to Congress from time to time from
the Attorney General as to the decisions rendered in the
proceeding. (§ 8.)
It provides for the withholding of the approval of the
adjustment of the land grants by the Secretary of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

311 U. S.

Interior and for the withholding of patents until the
determination of the litigation. (§ 9.)
Pursuant to the Act, the Attorney General caused a
bill to be filed; on behalf of the United States, in the
District Court for Eastern Washington. The company
and the trustees under certain of its mortgages filed answers and motions to dismiss the whole bill and each
paragraph. The court referred the motions to a special
master. He reported that they should be sustained as
to certain paragraphs of the bill. The court overruled
exceptions to his report. The case was then again referred to the master before -whom testimony was taken
upon the issues raised by the answers to those portions
of the bill which had not been dismissed. The master
reported that the company should be awarded compensation for the loss of the right of indemnity selection
in the withdrawn lands, and submitted his calculation
of the acreage involved.
The court, after sustaining certain of the plaintiff's
exceptions and dismissing almost all of the defendants',
found the company entitled to patents for certain lands
outside the reserves and to compensation for the loss of
1,453,061 acres of land within them. The court reserved
for future decision the contentions of the mortgagees
that they are purchasers for value whose rights cannot
be affected by the Government's claim and also ascertainment of the amount to be awarded to the company.
At this stage of the litigation Congress adopted the
Act of May 22, 1936,5 authorizing a direct appeal fromthe decree of the District Court to this court. Pursuant to that statute the present appeals by the United
States and the company were taken. As to many of the
issues the parties have accepted the decision'-of the A is'

49 Stat. 1369.

U. S. v. NORTHERN PACIFIC RY. CO.
317

335

Opinion of the Court.

trict Court. Errors are, however, assigned to the decree
below by both the Government and the company.
The Government concedes that the Act of 1929, supra,
is not a declaration of forfeiture for breach of conditions imposed by the Act of 1864 and the Resolution of
1870, but a reference to the courts of all questions as to
performance and breach of the contracts created by the
Act and the Resolution, to the end that the respective
rights and liabilities of the parties may be determined
and enforced. The company asserts that the Act of 1929
is an exercise of the power of eminent domain whereby
the company is deprived of further right to select indemnity lands, and is to be paid just compensation for
the right so taken. But the company does not deny
that, in ascertaining the amount due it, the Government
may offset the amount of any claims it may now be
entitled to assert by reason of the company's breaches
of contract.
The Government urges that the breaches of covenant
by the company have been so substantial that it cannot
call for further performance by the United States and
is, therefore, not entitled to further selection rights or
to any money compensation for their abrogation. Reliance is placed upon the following alleged breaches.
1. The alleged failure of the company to obtainvbona
fide subscriptions to its stock and payments thereof required by the Act of 1864.

Section 19 of the Act of 1864 provides that, unless
within two years of its approval the company shall obtain bona fide stock subscriptions to the amount of two
million dollars, with ten per cent. paid, the Act shall be
null and void.
Paragraph VI of the bill alleges that, although within
the two years pretended subscriptions and payments
were made, the prettnded payments Were sham and a

.336

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

311 U. S.

fraud upon the corporation and the United States; that
the Act thus became void and the company is not entitled to any compensation in the present suit.
The master recommended that the motion to dismiss
this paragraph should be granted, and the District Court
so ordered.
2. The alleged failure of the company to perform the
condition of the grant that it complete the whole
railroad.
Section 8 of the Act of 1864 provides that "each and
every grant, right, and privilege herein are so made and
given to, and accepted by, said Northern Pacific Railroad Company, upon and subject to the following conditions, namely: That the said company shall commence
the work on said road within two years from the approval of this act by the President, and shall complete
not less than fifty miles per year after the second year,
and shall construct, equip, furnish, and complete the
whole road by the fourth day of July, anno Domini
eighteen hundred and seventy-six." The time for the
completion of the road was extended by Congress to
July 4, 1879. It is undisputed that the company never
definitely located or built that portion of its line embracing the two hundred and twenty-five miles between
Wallula and Portland. Instead, it made a contract for
running rights over the tracks of the Oregon Railway &
Navigation Company.
In paragraphs XIV and XXVI of the bill the United
States alleges' that the road was never completed. The
master recommended that the company's motion to dismiss these paragraphs be granted. The court -so
ordered.
3. The claim that diversion of funds in thi building
of branch lines disentitles the company to select further
lands.
Paragraph XIV of the bill alleges that, through various described contracts and transactions, the funds of

U. S. v. NORTHERN PACIFIC RY. CO.
317

337

Opinion of the Court.

the Northern Pacific Railroad Company were used in
the building of branch lines, which were unjustified and
unprofitable and that further funds were, under contract, advanced to such branch lines to keep them in
operation. It is alleged that these things were done
at a time when the company had not completed its
main line from Wallula to Portland. The bill charges
that the illegal. and fraudulent conduct it describes resulted in the branch lines receiving unconscionable and
illegal profits at the cost of the Northern Pacific when
the latter's funds should have been used to complete its
main line, all in violation of the contract between the
United States and the Northern Pacific created by the
Act of 1864 and the Resolution of 1870. The master
recommended that this paragraph be dismissed in the
view thatt the transactions in question did not disentitle
the company to exercise indemnity selection rights in
connection with the grant so far as concerits the road
actually constructed. ,The court dismissed the paragraph.
4. The claim that the company failed to perform its
contract by refusing to- open lands granted it by the
Resolution of 1870 to settlement and pre-emption at
$2.50 per acre.
Section 10 of the Act of 1864 provides that "no mortgage or construction bonds shall ever be issued by said
company on said road, or mortgage, or lien made in any
way, except by the consent of the congress of the United
States."
An additional line was authorized by the Joint Resolution of 1870 and a land grant made therefor. The
Resolution empowered the company to issue bonds in
aid of construction and equipment, and to "secure the
same by mortgage on its property and rights of prop-276055--41-22

338

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

311 U. S.

erty of all kinds and descriptions, real, personal, and
mixed, including its franchise as a corporation." The
Resolution further provided "that all lands hereby
granted to said company which shall not be sold or disposed of or remain subject to the mortgage by this act
authorized, at the expiration of five years after the
completion of the entire road, shall be subject to settlement and pre-emption like other lands, at a price to be
paid to said company not exceeding two dollars and fifty
cents per acre."
Paragraph XIII of the bill refers to these provisions
of the Joint Resolution and alleges that among the place
lands granted there are many million acres the quantity
and description of which are known only to the company, or its predecessor, which should have been opened
to settlement and pre-emption whereas they were, subsequent to July 4, 1884, (five years from the date finally
fixed for completion of the road), sold at such prices,
and on such conditions, as to the company seemed best,
and that this was a breach of the company's contract
with the United States and defeated the policy of the
United States. The master reached the conclusion that
the motion to dismiss paragraph XIII should be sustained and the court so ruled.
The Government insists that the Resolution required
the company to hold the lands open for settlement, at
the price and in parcels as specified, after five years,
whether mortgaged or not; that it failed to do so, and
sold the lands at higher prices and in larger parcels than
the Resolution required, and that its breach of covenant defeats its right to any award. The company contends that the intent of the Resolution was to permit
it to mortgage all its property rights; that if, at the expiration of five years from the completion of the road,
any of the granted lands were undisposed of, or were

U. S. v. NORTHERN PACIFIC RY. CO.
317

339

Opinion of the Court.

not subject to mortgage, those lands were open to preemption; that, whether or not the existence of a mortgage prevented settlement of the lands, after five years,
there was no duty on the company to dispose of them to
settlers; and that the company has not broken any covenant in respect of the lands in question.
5. The claim that unauthorized withdrawals of place
and indemnity lands preclude any award to the
company.
Section 3 of the Act of 1864 grants place lands "on
each side of said railroad line, as said company may
adopt," and fixes the date of passage of title to the
company as "the time the line of said road is definitely
fixed." Section 6 provides that the President shall cause
the place lands to be surveyed "after the general route
shall be fixed."
Pursuant to preliminary surveys, the Railroad Company filed with the Secretary of the Interior a map
showing the general route of the propose,! line. Thereupon the Secretary, caused place limits to be laid down
on either side of the proposed general route and withdrew from sale or entry the odd-numbered sections
within those limits. In 1903 this court held that title
to the granted place lands did not vest in the company
until the filing of a map of definite location and that,
consequently, the withdrawal of the lands by the Secretary prior to that time and coterminous with the general route was unauthorized."6
After the coiipany had filed its maps of definite location the Secretary mapped the indemnity limits specified by the Act of 1864 and withdrew the lands comprehended within those limits from sale or entry. In 1888
the then Secretary held that land within the indemnity
limits Was open to pre-emption under the homestead
'Nelson v. Northern Pacific RV,Co., 188 U. S. 108, 116-117.

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

311 U. S.

laws and that such pre-emption, even before actual survey of the lands, deprived the company of the right to
select the lands pre-empted. This view was adopted
by this court in 1901.1"
Paragraph XXXII of the bill recites these facts and
alleges that, by virtue of the withdrawals, the Railroad
Company and the Railway Company have received benefits, lands, and values to which they were not entitled;
to the injury of the United States. The master recommended that the motion to dismiss the paragraph be
sustained and the court so decreed.
6. The claim that the foreclosures and reorganizations
of the railroadand its property disentitle the company
to select further lands.
The Resolution of 1870 authorized the railroad company to issue its bonds and secure the same by mortgage on its property of every kind and provided that if
the mortgage authorized should at any time be enforced
by foreclosure or other legal proceeding, or the mortgaged lands granted by the Resolution, or any of them,
should be sold by the- mortgage trustees, upon default,
"such lands shall be sold at public sale, at places within
the States and Territories in which they shall be situate,
after not less than sixty days' previous notice, in single
sections or subdivisions thereof, to the highest and best
bidder .
The bill alleges that two reorganizations occurred,-one in 1875 and the other in 1896. As respects the first,
it is charged that, pursuant to court order, the trustees
of the mortgage conveyed the mortgaged railroad and
property in a block to certain individuals who thereupon
retransferred to the railroad company Under an arrangement whereby mortgage bondholders received preferred
stock in lieu of their bonds, such preferred stock to be
17

Hewitt v. Schultz, 180 U. S. 139.

U. S. v. NORTHERN PACIFIC RY. CO.
317

341

Opinion of the Court.

redeemed from the proceeds of the sale of the company's
lands. With respect to the latter foreclosure it is alleged that the company, after reorganization, created a
number of mortgages which were foreclosed and that, in
the course of the foreclosure, sales of the mortgaged
lands, while made in the respective states and territories
where they lay, ard although made section by section,
were all, by prearrangement, purchased by, or in behalf
of, a new company, whereas it was the intent of Congress that they should be so sold as to give individuals
an opportunity to acquire them.
Paragraphs IX, X, XI, XII, XVI and XVIII describe
the transactions in great detail and charge that what was
done was in the teeth of the policy of the United States
and to its injury. The master recommended dismissal
of these paragraphs and the court adopted his recommendation. The United States insists that what was
done constitutes a breach of thd company's obligation
under the Resolution of 1870 so substantial as to disentitle it to any further performance of the land grants.
The company asserts that the reorganization of 1875 involved no sale of the mortgaged lands within the contemplation of the statute but a mere device for
reinvesting the company with its lands, freed of the
mortgage, and that the foreclosure sales made in the
reorganization of 1896 were made in strict and exact
accordance with the provisions of the Resolution of
1870.
The Government asserts that none of the paragraphs
referred to above should have been dismissed. It says
that each of the breaches charged was so substantial as
to disentitle the company to further performance by the
United States. But, in any event, it says that all of
them, taken together, certainly require this conclusion.

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.'

311 U S.

The company, on the other hand, contends that, as to"
some of the matters charged, the allegations of the bill
do not show any breach, and that, as to others, if a
breach is sufficiently alleged it was not such as, in the
light of the history of the grants and the performance
received by the United States, would disentitle the
company to all further performance.
If the Government's position is sound the decree below should be reversed and the cause remanded with
instructions to enter a judgment against the company
and in favor of the United States.
The justices who heard this case are equally divided
in -opinion upon these issues. No opinion is expressed
upon them, and they are reserved, in view of the fact
that our rulings on other issues may be dispositive of
the entire controversy.
The Government puts forward certain further claims
which, if sustained, would preclude any recovery by the
company.
7. The claim that no compensation should have been
awarded because unsurveyed public lands were available for selection, and the company failed to show that
it would, or could, have selected and obtained all of the
withdrawn lands.
The District Court found that, at March 1, 1898, just
prior to the first forest withdrawal, the company had
unsatisfied losses of 5,946,664 acres under the 1864 grant
and that the total lands available for selection at that
date were 1,137,508 acres, leaving a deficiency in the
grant of 4,809,156 acres; and the deficiency in the 1870
grant, excluding available land in second indemnity limits, at March 1, 1898, was 593,656 acres, and there has
been, ever since, a deficiency in respect of that grant.

U. S. v. NORTHERN PACIFIC RY. CO.
317

343

Opinion of the Court.

In these findings the court computed as lands available
for selection only non-mineral, surveyed, vacant land.
The company asserts that in this the court was right.
The Government insists that vacant unsurveyed lands
were "available" as indemnity to the company notwithstanding the concession that, as lands selected must be
identified, the company cannot select them until they
have been so identified by survey.18 It says the company failed to show that there were not ample unsurveyed lands within the indemnity limits to set off losses
in the place limits at the time of the withdrawals and
adds that, inasmuch as homesteaders might, in the interim, obtain prior rights by actual settlement of these
unsurveyed lands,1" it is a matter of pure speculation
whether the company would ultimately have obtained
adequate indemnity even if unsurveyed lands had not
been withdrawn for forest reserves. It further claims
that if the court below had treated unsurveyed lands
as available for indemnity selection, there would have
been no deficiency at the dates of withdrawal.
These contentions cannot be sustained.
Decision turns on the inquiry as to what lands were
available to the company for selection at the time of the
respective governmental withdrawals.
It is, of course, evident that the company could not
select mineral lands as indemnity. It follows that
all lands classified as mineral were excluded from
selection.
By § 3 of the Act of 1864 it is provided that whenever any of the place lands granted to the company
"Atlantic & Pacific R. Co., 17 L. D. 313; Northern Pacific R. Co.,
20 L. D. 187; Sawyer v. Gray, 205 F. 160, 163; Douglass v. Rhodes,
280 F. 230, 231; Cox v. Hart, 260 U. S. 427, 436.
" Hewitt v. Schultz, 180 U. S. 139; Southern Pacific R. Co. v. Bell,
183 U. S. 675.

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

311 U. S.

shall have been, prior to the time of definite location of
the road, "granted, sold, reserved, occupied by homestead settlers, or pre-empted, or otherwise disposed of,
other lands shall be selected by said company in lieu
thereof, under the direction of the Secretary of the Interior, in alternate sections, and designated by odd
numbers, . . ."
The fact that the lands in the indemnity limits are,
before survey, subject to be taken by pre-emptors and
settlers, and thus ultimate satisfaction of the railroad
company may be defeated, does not justify the Government itself in reserving lands contained within those
limits and thus rendering impossible the company's obtaining them. This was definitely held in the Forest
Reserve Case.2"
Much was said in argument as to the meaning of the
phrase "lands available as indemnity" as used in that
case. It seems clear that unsurveyed lands are not
available to the company under the Act of 1864. It will
be observed that the company must select indemnity
lands under the direction of the Secretary of the Interior. That officer has invariably ruled that no selection can be made or approved until the lands in question
are surveyed. 2
This ruling was necessitated by the very terms of the
Act of 1864, which requires selection of alternate sections
designated by odd numbers. Obviously, until surveyed,
no odd-numbered sections could exist. Unsurveyed
lands are not public lands. 2
256 U. S. 51, 66, 67.
'Atlantic & Pacific R. Co., 17 L. D. 313; Northern Pacific R. Co.,

20 L. D. 187, 190.
'Hewitt v. Schultz, 180 U. S: 139, 152; United States v. Montana
Lumber & Mfg. Co., 196 U. S. 573, 578; United States v. Morrison,
240 U. S. 192, 200; Cox v. Hart, 260 U. S. 427; Sawyer v. Gray,
205 F. 160, 163; Douglass v. Rhodes, 280 F. 230, 231; Northern
Pacific Ry. Co. v. Lane, 46 App. D. C. 434.

U. S. v. NORTHERN PACIFIC RY. CO.
317

345

Opinion of.the Court.

The decision in the Forest Reserve Case, supra, did
not suggest any different view. The allegation of deficiency in indemnity lands in that case, found in the
stipulation of the parties, was that the lands were those
odd-numbered sections which the defendant was entitled to select under the regulations of the Land Departmeit. This could only mean, and the decision could
only have gone upon the view that it meant, that the
surveyed lands within the indemnity limits were deficient to meet the selection rights of the railroad company. The case is not an authority, as the Government
contends, for the proposition that unsurveyed vacant
lands within the indemnity limits are to be considered
as available to the company in ascertaining whether the
Government has reserved to itself lands as to which the
company has selection rights. ; Under the doctrine of the
ForestReserve Case the challonged withdrawals for forest
and other governmental purposes left the indemnity
lands available to the company deficient to satisfy its
rights of selection.
The holding was that the withdrawals were void and
the company's rights remained as if the withdrawals had
never been made. If and' when any of the withdrawn
lands were surveyed the company was entitled-to select
them, as it did in the Forest Reserve Case.
It would appear, however, that the Government's contention is moot as respects all but 23,364 acres of lands
in Idaho second indemnity limits for which the company
was awarded compensation by the District Court's
decree. If unsurveyed vacant lands remaining within
the indemnity limits after a government withdrawal are
to be treated as available to the company for selection,
then the grant was not Ideficient as respects second indemnity limits in Idaho and the compaty should not
have been awarded cIompensation for the acreage
mentioned.

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

311 U. S.

As respects withdrawals from first indemnity limits of
the 1864 grant, and withdrawals from the limits of the
1870 grant, it appears to be undisputed that, other
contentions of the Government, such as that with respect to the noncompletion of the entire road, being laid
to one side, the withdrawals left the grants deficient
even though unsurveyed lands remaining within the
limits after the withdrawals be counted as available to
the company. And the same conclusion would seem to
be required respecting lands within the second indemnity limits in Montana with the exception of 4004.38
acres withdrawn on July 14, 1899.
Thus the issue becomes, to a large extent, moot but,
as respects approximately 30,000 acres above referred to,
we think what has been said on the subject of the availability of unsurveyed lands sustains the decree of the
District Court.
The Government, however, argues that even though
the withdrawals for governmental purposes created such
a deficiency of lands available for selection that, to satisfy the grant, the company would have been compelled
to select lands within the withdrawn reserves, nevertheless, in order to obtain indemnity for the deficiency so
created, the company is bound to prove that it would
have selected lands within the reserves, and what lands
it would have selected, before it can claim compensation
from the Government for the deprivation of its right to
select; A majority of the justices who heard the case
think the position is untenable.
Under the ruling in the Forest Reserve Case it was the
obligation of the Government to refrain from any action
which would deprive the company of its right of sdlection in accordance with the terms of the grant. When
the United States withdrew the lands for forest and
other reserves it signified its purpose to retain them for
its own use and not to allow the company or anyone

U. S. v. NORTHERN PACIFIC RY. CO.
317

347

Opinion of the Court.

else to obtain them, any law or contract to the contrary
notwithstanding. We think the company's right of selection, to the extent of the deficiency in the grant, remained available as to the withdrawn lands, provided
the lands selected were such as are defined in the grant.
The Government's contention that no one can say how
soon the lands would have been surveyed and selected
if they had not been withdrawn and reserved, or, if they
had remained unsurveyed and not withdrawn, what
areas would have been taken up by settlers and preemptors, does not avail to abrogate or qualify the company's right to exercise its privilege of selection notwithstanding the withdrawals. Moreover, the argument
ignores the repeal of the pre-emption laws by the Act of
March 3, 1891.23

8. The claim that the company should be charged
with 18,800,000 acres wrongfully received because lying
within Indian reservations.
Paragraph XXIX of the bill alleges that by treaties
of September 17, 1851, and October 17, 1855,24 the United,
States "reserved" certain lands for Indian tribes. The
paragraph alleges that the place and indemnity belts
established by -the Act of 1864 crossed certain of the
lands reserved by the treaties, and that, by mistake and
without lawful authority, the company received from
the United States lands comprised in the reservations
amounting to about 12,000,000 acres in place and first
indemnity limits and 1,300,000 acres in second indemnity
limits; that for all of them it had obtained patents to
which it was not entitled, as it should have known.
In accordance with the master's :recommendation, the
-court below sustained the motion to dismiss paragraph
XXIX on, the ground that the lands in question were
C. 561, § 4, 26 Stat. 1097.
"IV Kappler, 1065; 11 Stat. 657.

348

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

311 U. S.

granted to the company by the Act of i864 and the
Resolution of 1870. We think the court was right.
By an Act of June 30, 1834,"5 all lands lying west of
the Mississippi River, not within the States of Missouri
and Louisiana or the Territory of Arkansas, were designated as Indian country. The fee of all this territory
was in the United States, subject to the Indian right of
occupancy. The treaties of 1851 and 1855 did not alter
the status of the lands described in them. The purpose
of those treaties was to establish peace and amity between warring Indian tribes inter sese and between the
tribes and the United States. To this end the country
or territory of each tribe was described and the tribes
agreed to respect the boundaries named in the treaties.
No alteration in the status of the lands had occurred up
to the date of definite location of the Northern Pacific's
line. About seven hundred miles of the railroad traversed the area embraced in the treaties.
By § 2 of the Act of 1864 it was provided that "The
United S'tates shall extinguish, as rapidly as may be
consistent with public policy and the welfare of the said
Indians, the Indian titles to all lands falling under the
operation of this act, and acquired in the donation to the
[road] named in this bill." The Government now contends that this section is inapplicable to any but rightof-way lands lying within the areas described by the
treaties. The contention was not made or considered
below, and we think, if it were open here, the plain
language of the section renders it untenable.
Section 3 limits the land grant to lands as to which
the United States "have full title, not reserved, sold,
granted, or otherwise appropriated, and free from preemption, or other claims or rights, at the time the line
of said road is definitely fixed, . . ." The Government
contends that this section excludes lands embraced
"4 Stat. 729.

U. S. v: NORTHERN PACIFIC RY. CO.
317

349

Opinion of the Court.

within the treaty limits for the reason that the treaties
"reserve' all the lands described in them for the
signatory Indian tribes. We think the contention is
unsound.
As we have noted, the treaties did not create technical
reservations as have many other treaties and acts of
,ongress. They did not set aside a defined territory for
the exclusive use of a tribe nor contain the usual provisions for an Indian Agent for schools, assistance in farming operations, etc. The country described in the Treaty
of 1851 amounts to one hundred and sixty-three million
acres, and that described in the Treaty of 1855 to thirtyseven million acres. In the case of one of the tribes, if
the treaty were considered to create a technical reservation it would have allotted to each man, woman, and
child in the tribe more than eighteen square miles.
The Department of the Interior, as is evidenced by
the patents issued, has consistently treated the lands in
question as included in the grant. This court has repeatedly passed upon the question; has held the lands
were Indian country, subject only to the Indians' right
of occupancy; were within the grant made by the Act
of 1864, and that, by § 2 of the Act, the United States
assumed the obligation of extinguishing the Indian title
in favor of the company."
We come now to the contentions of the Government
which go to the quantum of the award.
9. The claim that the company should be charged
with approximately 1,000,000 acres received as the result
of adoption of an unnecessarily circuitous route.
Section 1 of the Act of 1864 empowered the company
to locate and construct a continuous railroad line from
Beecher v. Wetherby, 95 U. S. 517; Buttz v. Northern Pacific
Railroad, 119 U. S. 55; Bardon v. Northern Pacific R. Co., 145 U. S.

350

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

311 U. S.

a point on Lake Superior "westerly by the most eligible
railroad route, as shall be determined by said company, . . . to some point on Puget's Sound, with a
branch, via the valley of the Columbia River, to a point
at or near Portland, . . ." The Resolution of 1870 authorized the company to construct its main line to a
point on Puget Sound via the valley of the Columbia
River, with the right to locate its branch from a point
on the main line, across the Cascade Mountains, to
Puget Sound.
Paragraph XXVI alleged that the company was required to construct its railroad to the western terminus
upon the most direct and practicable line without unnecessary deviations but that, instead of doing so, the
company built the road from Lind, Washington, 'to
Ellensburg, Washington, by an unnecessarily circuitous
route southwestward to Pasco on the Columbia River
and thence northwestward v'ia the valley of the Yakima,
whereas it could have constructed the line nearly due
westward from Lind to Ellensburg and have saved about
eighty-two miles; that, by reason of this unnecessary
circuity, approximately one'million, four hundred thousand acres were added to the lands within the limits
described in the grant over and above the amount which
would have been included had the more direct route
been followed. The allegations of the paragraph are
that, after filing general route maps, the company ultimately ,filed definite maps of location and thereupon the
Department of the Interior surveyed and patented to it
lands lying along the line; that this was an error as the
Department should have refused to patent place lands
or allow selection of indemnity lands coterminous with
the circuitous route. The paragraph contains no averment that the rpute was selected by the company fraud535, 542; Missouri, K. & T. Ry. Co. v. Roberts, 152 U. S. 114, 117;
Clairmont v. United States, 225 U. S. 551, 556

U. S. v. NORTHERN PACIFIC RY. CO.
317

Opinion of the Court.

ulently in order to obtain additional lands or that it
was not in good faith thought to be the most eligible
route. The paragraph refers to the fact that subsequently the Chicago, Milwaukee and St. Paul Railway
located its line from Lind to Ellensburg by themore
direct route. The master recommended that the motion
to dismiss the paragraph be sustained and the court so
ordered. We think there was no error in this disposition
of the matter.
The Joint Resolution of 1870 called for the main line
to run via the valley of the Columbia River to Puget
Sound with a branch line from a convenient point on
the main line across the Cascade Mountains to Puget
Sound. In pursuance of this requirement the company
filed a map of definite location and construdted its route
between Spokane and Wallula on the Columbia River.
At that point it was able to make a connection with the
Oregon Railway & Navigation Company. In 1880 it,
therefore, entered into a contract for running rights over
the line of that railroad and has used its line for traffic
into Portland. It was natural, in this situation, to lay
out the authorized branch line over the Cascade Mountains from the main line at Pasco. Maps of the line
from Pasco to Tacoma were approved by the Secretary
of the Interior between June 1883 and December 1884.
Inspection reports in 1879 and 1880, made to the Secretary of the Interior, show that the Department was
familiar with the line the company was building.
On March 3, 1893, Congress ratified an agreement for
the payment to the Yakima Indialns for right of way
through their reservation provided, the company should,
within sixty days, pay the necessary money therefor into
the Treasury of the United States." This action shows
that Congress was fully informed of the adopted route
and codperated in making its c6fistruction feasible.
'Act of March 3, 1893, c. 209, 27 Stat. 612, 631.

OCTOBER 'TERM, 1940.,
Opinion of the Court.

311 U. S.

The master and the court below judicially noticed
that the route via the Yakima valley was a much more
advantageous one in respect of the country traversed,
and the probable available traffic, than the more direct
route between*Lind and Ellensburg. The total population along the latter is said to be less than a thousand
persons and the traffic -originating thereon practically
nil. On the other hand, the Yakima valley is one of the
most fertile and productive agricultural sections in the
Northwest.
The circuity is not such as to be an obvious evasion
of the terms of the grant, and in the absence of any
charge of fraud, it must be taken that the directors of
the company considered the line laid out the most eligible one.' We think the allegations of the paragraph do
not support the contention that the company illegally
acquired place and indemnity lands contiguous to this
portion of its line.
- 10. The claim that the company should have been
charged with 1,198,000 acres received as indemnity in
the second indemnity belt in Montana and should not
have been awarded compensation for 170,000 acres in,
the same belt.
Under the Act of 1864 losses of land in the place
limits could be supplied only in the first and the mineral
indemnity limits. The Resolution of 1870 added a second indemnity belt in which selections could be made
only for losses in the same state or territory occurring
through reservation, pre-emption, or other disposition
subsequent to the passage of the Act of 1864.
As has been stated under heading 8, supra, the Land
Office properly treated the lands within the boundaries
described by the treaty of 1851 ' as available under the
grant. By the Crow Treaty of 1868 a distinct and
Supra, p. 346.
'Treaty of May 7, 1868, 15 Stat. 649.

U. S. v. NORTHERN PACIFIC RY. CO.
317

353

Opinion of the Court.

exclusive reservation for that tribe was carved out of the
larger territory designated in the earlier days as the
Crow country. The Land Office treated the lands thus
specifically reserved as lost to the grant and permitted
indemnity selections from the second indemnity belt in
Montana, in which State the loss occurred.
It appears that, by virtue of withdrawals chiefly forforest reserves in Montana, the company has been deprived of the right to select about 170,000 acres of lieu
lands, about 64,000 acres of which losses were due to the
creation of the Crow Reservation. In its computation
of the lands for which the company was entitled to indemnity and compensation in this suit the court below
included this entire acreage.
The Government contends that the court should have
charged the company with the indemnity lands received
in second indemnity limits in Montana due to alleged
losses from the creation of the Crow Reservation and
that it should not have awarded any further compensation for the loss of selection rights in that belt resulting from the creation of the Crow Reservation, or
otherwise, as the company had already received more
than was proper. We think the position cannot be
maintained.
As' shown under heading 8, supra, no lands were removed from the operation of the grant by the Treaties
of 1851 and 1855. On the other hand the creation of
the Crow Reservation-a typical Indian reservation-in
1868, removed the lands in that reservation from the
grant within the intent and meaning of the Act of 1864,
as supplemented. by the Joint Resolution of 1870, and
conferred the right to indemnity selections from the
second indemnity belt within the same state.
11. The credit to the company for lands within the
Northern Cheyenne Indian Reservation.
The court below, in its award, treated the company
as entitled to select indemnity lands in first and second
276055°-41--23

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

311 U. S.

indemnity limits where these limits lay within the
Northern Cheyenne Indian Reservation in Montana.
The area in question was part of the Crow country rec;,0gnized by the Treaty of September 17, 1851.80 When,
:ji1868, the Crow Reservation was created, the Crow
.,iation ceded all iAs right and title in other lands em'braced within the treaty area to the United States. By
an Executive Order of March 19, 1900, the lands in
question became part of the Northern Cheyenne Reservation. This action was confirmed by Congress June 3,
1926,81 which declared that the lands were the property
of the Northern Cheyennes, authorized allotments, etc.
The Government contends that these lands were not,
on June 5, 1924-the pivotal date mentioned in the Act
of June 25, 1929-"embraced within the exterior boundaries of any national forest or other Government
reservation."
We think that under the terms of the Act these lands
had been withdrawn as a "Government reservation" and
for "governmental purposes"; and the Act which authorized this suit contemplated that compensation
should be awarded for lands so withdrawn, which, but
for the withdrawal, would have been available to the
company as indemnity.
12. The award for land within the reservations on
which homesteaders,filed prior to June 5, 1924, and for
which they received patents after June 5, 1924.
After the withdrawals had been made homesteaders
filed on certain of the lands within the forest reserves.
These filings were prior to June 5, 1924. Subsequent to
that date patents were issued under the forest homestead
laws. The court below, we think, properly treated these
'Supra, Note 24.
c. 459, 44 Stat. 690.

U. S. v. NORTHERN PACIFIC RY. CO.
317

355

.Opinion of the Court.

lands as having been available for indemnity selection
by the company at the date of withdrawal and awarded
the company compensation for the abrogation of its
right to select them. The Government asserts that this
was error, in the view that the Act of 1929 awarded
compensation only for those lands which would be, or
were, available for selection on June 5, 1924. The Act,
however, does not so provide. It awards indemnity for
lands which, on June 5, 1924, were embraced in any
reservation, and "which, in the event of a deficiency in
the said land grants to the Northern Pacific Railroad
Company upon the dates of the withdrawals of the said
indemnity lands for governmental purposes, would be, or
were," available for selection.
13. The claim that, as to more than a million acres,
the award rests upon a fraudulent mineral classification
which will not support indemnity selection rights.
Section 3 of the Act of 1864, granting odd-numbered
sections, excluded mineral lands from the grant. The
section provides that iron or coal lands are not to be
classed as mineral. In lieu of mineral lands the company
is given the right to select a like quantity of "unoccupied and unappropriated agricultural lands, in odd numbered sections, nearest to the line of said road and
within fifty miles thereof, . .
One of the contentions strongly pressed by the Department of Agriculture before the Joint Committee
acting under the Resolution of June 5, 1924, was that,
due to the company's fraud, great quantities of place
lands had been improperly classified as mineral, with the
result that the company had been allowed to select, and
had received patents for, over a million acres of land in
lieu of those so classified. The company resisted this
contention.

856

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

311 U. S.

By the Act of June 25, 1929, this matter was remitted
to the courts for adjudication. Section 5 directs that in
the judicia proceedings contemplated there shall be
presented, and. the court shall consider, make findings
relating to; and determine, to what extent the terms,
conditions and covenants of the granting acts have been
performed by the United States and the company, including the question what lands, if any, have been
wrongfully or erroneously patented or certified as the
result of fraud. Section 6 requires that, in fixing the
amount of compensation to be received by the company
on account of the retention by the United States of
indetmnity lands for national forests or Government reserves, the court shall determine what quantities in
lands or values the company and its predecessors have
received as a result of fraud and that such excess lands
and values, if any, shall be charged against the company
in the judgment of the court.
Paragraph XXVIII of the complaint refers to the Act
of February 26, 1895,12 providing for the examination
and classification, as mineral or nonmineral, of place and
indemnity lands within four land districts in Idaho and
'Montana; recites the appointment and functioning of
the Commissions authorized by the Act; alleges that the
Commissioners. undertook to classify approximately
eleven million five hundred thousand acres of land, and
pretended to lassify the same; filed their reports which,
with minor exceptions, were approved by the Secretary
of the Interior; asserts that 3,782,377 acres, more or less,
were classified as mineral, and that the company, and
its predecessor in interest, made mineral lieu selections
totaling 1,330,762 acres, more or less, and received patents therefor; alleges that the company is claiming additional indemnity lands of approximately 2,451,615 acres
Supra, Note 8.

U. S. v. NORTHERN PACIFIC RY. CO.
317

857

Opinion of the Court.

in lieu of lands classified as mineral; and charges that
'he company, and its predecessor, were guilty of fraudulent and collusive practices whereby the Commissioners
were persuaded to classify, a mineral, lands of little
value, so that the railroad could select more valuable
lands in lieu thereof, and that the lands so selected and
patented to the company were of a value in excess of the
entire 3,782,377 acres, more or less, of lands fraudulently
classified as mineral.
The company moved to dismiss the paragraph and in
its answer denied the allegations. The master recommended that the motion be sustained and the court so
ordered. In this we think there was error.
The master, after considering the facts set out, and
matters of which he took judicial notice, stated that he
would have no difficulty in overruling the motion to
dismiss had it not been for the position taken by the
Government in argument. The master states that a
goodly portion of the nearly four million acres classified
as mineral consisted of lands within the forest reserves,
which by the Act of June 25, 1929, the Government signified its intention to retain, that still other lands so
classified had been patented to claimants as mineral
claims, and that the Government had sold much valuable timber from still other of such lands. The master
says that in the light of these facts he inquired of counsel whether the Government desired a reclassificgtion by
reason of the alleged' fraud and that the reply was in
the negative. He reports that 'counsel contended the
Government's pleading wqs meant to meet and defeat
the company's claim, on the theory that, as to the lands
classified as mineral and the claims to lieu lands therefor, the company must be 'treated as a plaintiff, and, as
Paragraph XXVIII disclosed that the company did not
have clean hands, it could not maintain its claim. The
master overruled this contention, holding that the com-

358

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

311 U. S.

pany was, in this case, a defendant and that the doctrine
of clean hands did not apply to a defendant in equity.
Whatever gloss Government counsel may have put
upon the paragraph, we think the master and the court
below were bound to give full effect to the pleading and
that the master was right in his original view that the
facts set up, and the issues made by the answer, required
a trial; and, if the Government succeeds in maintaining
the truth of its allegations, the company should be
charged with lands or values obtained as mineral indemnity through the fraud of its agents and their collusion
with the Commissioners.
* Although it is alleged, and the master found, that it
was impossible in the time allowed by Congress for the
Commissioners to make such a survey and classification
as the legislation contemplated, we think the reports and
the Secretary's approval and acceptance thereof, create
a prima facie showing in favor of the classification and
the company's selection of indemnity lands.
The United States pleaded the fraud which it says
renders the classification, and the actions consequent
upon it, a nullity. We think it necessarily has the burden of proof to sustain its pleading. It-is not barred by
laches or estoppel from asserting and proving the alleged fraud, and from having the company charged with
the lands or values received as a result of it.
The case must go back for a trial bf the issues made
by paragraph XXVIII of the complaint and the answer
thereto. It may be that on the trial the Government's
evidence will prove fraud on the part of the company of
such a character and extent as would disentitle the latter to any award even though-the fraud does not extend
to an aicreage equal in extent to that of the selection
rights taken away by the Act of 1929.
14. The meaning of the phrase "agricultural lands"
in the provision for selection in lieu of excepted mineral
lands.
In computing the deficiency of lands available for indemnity selection the District Court included the nearly

U. S. v. NORTHERN PACIFIC RY. CO.
317

359

Opinion of the Court.

two million acres of mineral losses as to which indemnity
selection had not been made at the time of the withdrawals and treated the withdrawn lands as available
for selection in respect of mineral losses. The Government insists that this was error because much of the
withdrawn land is not agricultural and is not, therefore,
available as indemnity for mineral losses. The company, on the other hand, asserts that in the granting
Act the word "agricultural" is not used in its ordinary
sense of tillable or cultivable but as meaning merely
lands not mineral. It bases this contention largely upon
the alleged administrative construction and practice of
the Department of the Interior which, so it claims, has
treated the word "agricultural" as a term of classification
and not one of strict definition. 3 This was the view
taken by the master and the District Court.
Section 3 of the Act of 1864, which contains the grant
to the railroad, employs three descriptions of public
lands. The place land granted is denominated "public
land, not mineral"; the lieu lands which may be selected
to make up losses in the place lands are referred to as
"other lands"; the mineral lieu lands are designated as
"unoccupied and unappropriated agricultural lands."
The Act seems to have served as a model for other
railroad grants made shortly thereafter. Section 3 of an
Act of July 27, 1866," which incorporated and granted
lands to the Atlantic and Pacific Railroad Company, is
It is true that in administration of the grant the Land Office
approved selections upon affidavit merely that the chosen lands were
"non-mineral"; but apparently the question whether that phrase v~as
synonymous with "agricultural" was not raised or considered. We
think the administrative practice, therefore, does not strengthen the
company's argument. Moreover, Congress has not approved the'
practice, but, on the contrary, has directed that errors in the administration of the grant shall be corrected by the court's decree.
-14 Stat. 292, 294.

360

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

311 U. S.

in the samewords except that the mineral indemnity is
limited to a distance of twenty miles from the line.
Section 9 of an Act of March 3, !§71,85 incorporating
and granting lands to the Texas Pacifi- Railroad Company, employs the same phraseology.
The granting clause of the Act of 1864 differed from
those theretofore commonly used. In earlier acts indemnity selections were required to be of lands nearest
the line. By the Act of 1864 lands in lieu of place lands
_previously sold, or otherwise disposed of, might be selected from land anywhere within the indemnity belt.
In the mineral indemnity provision, however, Congress
reverted to the earlier practice of requiring that agricultural lands nearest to the line, but within an unusually
wide belt of fifty miles on either side, should be selected.
It seems obvious tlm-t this provision was inserted in the
knowledge that the mountainous Western country would
afford less opportunity to obtain good lands by indemnity selection than the more level farming country to
the East,
It is also to be noted that the bill as it passed the
House omitted a provision found in bills earlier introduced in aid of railroads in the far West, requiring that
the lieu lands for mineral losses should not only be those
nearest the line, but "neai st the line Qf the road through
said mineral lands . .

."

" In the Senate the grant of

mineral- indemnity was stricken out and mineral lands
were defined to exclude coal and iron. 7 The bill passed
the Senate in this form and was sent to a Conference
Committee. 8 The measure came from the Conference
Committee in the form in which it finally passed. The
* 16 Stat. 573, 576.
"Cf. S. 65, 35th Cong., 1st Sess.; H. R. 411, 35th Cong., 1st Sess.
Cong. Globe, 38th Cong., 1st Sess. 3290.
Cong. Globe, 38th Cong., 1st Sess. 3459.

U. S. v. NORTHERN PACIFIC RY. CO.
317

361

Opinion of the Court.

Act thus permitted a selection of agricultural lieu lands
not only in the territory adjacent to the mineral place
lands but within fifty .miles on either side of the right
of way anywhere along the entire route of the road. It
has consistently been so construed and the company has
been allowed to select, as mineral indemnity, lands not
more than fifty miles from its right of way opposite any
part of the road and in any state traversed by the
line. 89
The Government contends that "agricultural" means
"presently tillable" or "presently fit for the plough." We
agree, however, with the master and the court below
that the words "mineral" and "agricultural" as used in
the Act are not to be read strictly as defined by the dictionary. Mineral lands, as the phrase has been applied
in the administration of public lands, embrace not only
those which the lexicon defines as mineral, but,*in addition, such as are valuable for deposits of marble, slate,
petroleum, asphaltum, and even guano. Likewise, in the
administration of pre-emption and homestead legislation, the, terms "agricultural" and "cultivation" have
been given a liberal construction. It appears from the
record, and from the evidence before the Joint Congressional Committee, that pre-emptors or homesteaders,
under the acts requiring settlement and cultivation as a
prerequisite to a patent, have been allowed to take up
forests, grazing land, and, in fact, all types of land which,
in good faith, were sought for a home, provided the
lands could, by the settler's effort, be made habitable
-Op. A. G. 498, 41 L. D. 571; Sessey v. Northern Pacific Ry. Co.,
43 L. D. 302. The practice of the Land Office has been 'iniform in
permitting selection of mineral lieu lands in any state irreskective of
the state of loss. The same principle has governed the right of selec-.
tion of first indemnity lands for losses other than mineral. 19 Op.
A. G. 88, 94; Northern Pacific R. Co., 20 L. D. 187; Northern Pacific
R. Co. v. Shepherdson, 24 L. D. 417; Hagen v. Northern Pacific R. Co.,
26 L. D. 312.

362

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

311 U. S.

and used as a farm home. This has been true in spite
of the fact that the applicable acts of Congress have required cultivation as a prerequisite to acquisition by the
pre-emptor or homesteader."
Under the administrative practice, although lands
containing timber could be taken for homes in the public
land states, a certain portion of the lands had to be
cleared preliminary to cultivation. But, the pre-emptor
or homesteader has not been permitted to take up lands
valuable only for timber or for stone or for some other
use, which could not be rendered cultivable or usable in
a broad sense for farming, by clearing or other work done
thereon. Pursuant to legislation enacted years after the
grants to the company, lands unfit for a farm home
could be acquired."
It seems to us that inasmuch as the railroad company
could not take other mineral lands in lieu of mineral
place lands lost to the grant and, if it were confined to
non-mineral lands, contiguous to the lost mineral lands,
it would probably receive lands then considered of little
or no value, Congress, by the use of the term "agricultural," and by granting the right to select the lieu lands
anywhere along the line, intended to give the company
the privilege of taking more valuable lands than those
wild forest lands contiguous to the mineral place lands
in the Western mountain regions..
The truth seems to be that, in extending this privilege
to select more valuable lands, Congress did not have in
mind a distinction between "non-mineral" and "agricul'Act of June 19, 1834, c. 54, 4 Stat. 678; Act of June 22, 1838,
c. 119, 5 Stat. 251; Act of August 4, 1842, c. 122, 5 Stat. 502; Act of
March 3, 1843, c. 86, 5 Stat. 619, 621; Act of May 20, 1862, c. 75,
12 Stat. 392; 11. S. § 2291, 43 U. S. C. § 164.
' Timber and Stone Act, June 3, 1878, c. 151, 20 Stat. 89; Desert
Land Act, March 3, 1877, c. 107, 19 Stat. 377. The latter Act excluded both mineral and forest land from it operation.

U. S. v. NORTHERN PACIFIC RY. CO.
317

363

Opinion of the Court.

tural" lands, in the sense that the company must select
the more valuable agricultural lands and refrain from
taking less valuable lands non-mineral but not susceptible of cultivation. As the master well says, at the time
of the grant agricultural lands in states eastward of the
Rocky Mountains were far more valuable than the rough
mountain lands farther tQ the west. It is reasonable to
suppose that, at that time, neither Congress nor the
company contemplated the selection of unusable mountain lands rather than lands. ultimately available for agriculture. Nevertheless, we are bound to attribute some
meaning to the language Congress employed. It is obvious that, by the use of the word "agricultural," the
company was precluded from selecting other mineral
lands in lieu of mineral lands lost in the place limits.
With mineral lands thus excluded, we think the word
"agricultural" is to be interpreted in the light of existing legislation and conditions.
We are of the view that the word "agricultural" was
not, therefore, used as synonymous with "non-mineral"
but as synonymous with "land subject to be taken by
pre-emptors or homesteaders unde: the public land
laws." It is conceded that much of the land in the forest
reserves which the company claims the right to select
as mineral indemnity is not such as could have been
acquired by individuals ufider the land laws in force at
the time of the grant.
We have already noted that until the public lands
were surveyed the company could not make selections
and th*,in the meantime, unsurveyed lands might be
taken, under the pre-emption and homestead laws, to
the company's loss or detriment. No doubt if the railroad had been more promptly built, and if the company
had been more active in paying for and procuring surveys, good lands in various states within the mineral
indemnity belt would have been available for selection.

364

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

311 U. S.

These, however, were taken up and removed from the
company's right of selection, with the result that the
existing deficiency in the grant must be satisfied, if at
all, by selections of lands now in the forest reserves.
But, for whatever reason, the company has lost the right
to select the better lands mentioned, and we cannot rewrite the statute to confer upon it the privilege of taking
lands of a different character than those specified.
We conclude that, while the company had, at the time
of withdrawal, the right of selection of any lands which,
under the existing practice of the Land Office. a settler
could have taken under the pre-emption or homestead
laws, it may not take lands valuable solely for timber
or for other uses which would not justify pre-emption
or homestead settlement under the land laws as contemporaneously understood and administered. The
company's right of selection in the forest reserves is
limited to such land as would, under the practice of the
Land Office, have been available to individuals under
the public land laws either for clearing and subsequent
cultivation, or for grazing, or for any other pu.rpose commonly classified by the Land Office as coming within the
pre-emption and homestead laws.
Since the. court below has accorded the company a
much broader right of selection, its decree must be reversed and the cause must be remanded for ascertainment of the Company's selection rights as of the dates
of the withdrawals, in accordance with the views herein
eYpressed.
15. The claim that the United States is liable to account to the Railway Company only for the ascertained
deficiency at the time of withdrawal.
In its brief upon reargument the Government takes
.he position that even if the withdrawals left the grant
deficienLin lands lying in the second indemnity limits,
the United States is liable to account to the Railway

U. S. v. NORTHERN PACIFIC RY. CO.
317

365

Opinion of the Court

Company only for the amount of such deficiency. The
District Court held that if a given withdrawal had the
effect of leaving within the indemnity limits an insufficient acreage to satisfy the selection rights of the company the withdrawal was a breach of the Government's
obligation because thereby the Government disenabled
itself to carry out that obligation. The consequence
which the District-Court attached.to such action on the
part of the Government was that'the lands withdrawn
were; notwithstanding the withdrawal, still open to selection by' the company if and when surveyed. The
court below thought that, as the company was entitled,
under the terms of the grant, to exercise its selection
rights with respect to the withdrawn lands in these circumstances, the Act of 1929 contemplated that it should
be compensated for the deprivation of that right.
We think that the District Court was right and that
the Government's position that it is liable to accountonly for any deficiency ifi the vacant lands at the time
of withdrawal is not in accord with the granting act of
1864. The Forest Reserve Case, supra, supports the decision.below. It is clearly there held that if, by the Government's own act in withdrawing lands from the
indemnity limits, it leaves insufficient vacant land available for selection the company thereby becomes entitled
to select lands within the indemnity limits. That is ex'actly what was done by the company which brought
about the litigation in the Forest Reserve Case. The
decision is clear to the effect that, assuming the grant
was deficient (which was the matter the court could not
determine on the record then presented), the company
was entitled to select lands within the reserve.
16. The claim that subsequent restorations of withdrawn lands defeat the company's right of selection of
lands within the Governmental withdrawals.
What has just been said requires denial of the Government's contention that where withdrawn lands were

366

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

,311 U. S.

subsequently restored to the public domain, in an
amount sufficient to make up the deficiency created by
the original withdrawal, the company's claim to
choose lands within the withdrawal areas was thereby
defeated.
Under the Act of 1929 the company's right to compensation depends upon the availability of lands on the
dates of withdrawals for governmental purposes. This
provision of the Act of 1929 is, we think, in strict accordance with the purpose and intent of the granting
act and resolution. If, by the withdrawals, the Government disenabled itself to comply with its obligations
to the company, the withdrawals were unauthorized and
the company's right attached to the withdrawn lands
equally with the vacant lands remaining in the indemnity limits.
17. The illegal withdrawals of place and indemnity
lands.
As has been noted under heading 5, supra, the actionof the Department of the Interior in prematurely withdrawing lands in the place and indemnity limits from
settlement and pre-emption is claimed to have the effect
of denying the company any further rights under the
grants.
The further argument is made that, in any event, the
company is liable to the Government for damages consequent upon its receiving lands which, if it had not been
for the improvident withdrawals, would have gone to
settlers and pre-emptors. - The claim is that the court
below should have permitted the Government to prove
any damages it might be able to show as a result of this
incorrect administration of the grant. A majority of
the Court is of the opinion that a good ground for a
credit in favor of the United States against the company is set up by paragraph XXXII of the bill and that

U. S. v. NORTHERN PACIFIC RY. CO.
317

367

Opinion of the Court.

this paragraph is not, in this aspect, subject to the
motion to strike.
The paragraph sets up the disadvantages to the Government of the action of the Secretary of the Interior in
withdrawing lands prematurely; that as a consequence
the company and its predecessor secured benefits, lands
and values to which they were not entitled, to the injury
of the United States.
The majority of the Court thinks that section six of
the Act of 1929 requires a charge against the company
for sums received in lands or values in excess of that to
which it was rightfully entitled through mistake of law
or fact, or through misapprehension as to the proper
construction of said grants, or as a result of fraud, or
otherwise.
The proof of these alleged advantages gained or losses
suffered may be difficult. This is for development at
the hearing. The proof, however, must be of financial
detriment to the United States or of financial benefit to
the company.
18. The company's failure to open lands granted by
the Resolution of 1870 to settlement and pre-emption.
The company's alleged breach in this aspect as a defense to the company's entire claim is mentioned in
heading 4, supra.
The bill alleges, in paragraph XIII, the company's failure to open the granted lands to settlement and preemption was a breach of its contract 'nd "in defeat of
the policy of the United States with respect to the disposition of its public domain, . . .". In paragraph
XLII the court is asked to determine the extent to
which the company has failed to comply with the obligation imposed by the Joint Resolution pertaining to the
disposition of the lands by settlement and pre-emption
and to decree that the company now perform its cove-

368

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

311 U. S.

nant to the extent this is possible and, where it is found
impossible for the company to perform, the plaintiff
have such relief, as the court may. deem proper; and
further that the court decree that any and all moneys
received by the company from or by reason of the
granted lands after the breach of its covenant be declared to have been received by the company in trust
for the use and benefit of the United States and that the
plaintiff be awarded judgment for the amount of such
moneys. The prayer is, therefore, in the alternative for
damages or for an accounting, as upon a constructive
trust.
We hold, contrary to the Government's assertion, that
the proviso of the. Resolution of 1870, requiring that the
lands be opened by the company to settlement and preemption applies only to the additional lands granted by
that Resolution and not to lands acquired under the grant
of 1864.2 We hold further that the company was not
a trustee of the lands for the United States either in its
own right or in behalf of possible settlers." It results
that the Government cannot call upon the company to
account as a trustee for the proceeds of sale of the
lands.
A majority of the justices who heard this case are of
opinion that the proviso of the Resolution of 1870 required the company to open the lands granted by the
Resolution to pre-emption and settlement at the expiration of five years from the completion of the entire road
in 1887, whether the lands were then subject to mortgage
or not; that its failure so to do was a breach of its contract with the United States and that the Government
43

The legislative history is convincing: see Cong. Globe, 41st Cong.,

2d Sess., pp. 2480-85; 2569-84.
Compare Oregon & California R. Co. v., United States, 238 U. S.
393, 431-436.

U. S. v. NORTHERN PACIFIC RY. CO.
317

369

Opinion of the Court.

is entitled, if it can, to prove any dahage to it, or advantage to the company, which resulted from this breach
of contract. In this view the court below should not
have dismissed paragraph XIII of the bill and that
paragraph should be reinstated for the purpose of permitting the Government to prove damages and proof
should be submitted thereunder to that end.
19. The claim that the decree below in directing patents to issue for 428,986.68 acres of land outside the
reserves was erroneous to the extent of 44,838.60 acres of
indemnity lands.
In its brief upon reargument, the Government advances the claim that the decree of the District Court
quieting the company's title to 428,986.68 acres of land
lying outside the reserves, and directing that patents
issue upon payment of any balance of fees due by the
company, was erroneous as to 44,838.60 acres. It is asserted that 383,808.08 of the acres in question lie within
the place limits of the grant but 45,178.60 acres lie
within indemnity limits. Of these the Government concedes that, by a stipulation filed, 340 acres are to be
patented to the company. As to the remaining acreage,
the contention is that the company is not entitled to
patents, although selections were filed with the Department of the Interior, prior to June 5, 1924.
It is said that, on grounds heretofore stated, the company's breaches disentitle it to further performance on
the part of the Government. And, it is urged that, as
to over 30,000 acres of the: lands in question, the company assigned losses of mineral lands as base for indemnity selection and the alleged fraud in mineral classification vitiates the selection of this acreage as indemnity.
The Government also asserts that some 13,000 acres of
lands selected for patent prior to the bar date are Indian
lhnds within the Crow reservation. The first contention
276055°-41-24

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

311 U. S.

cannot prevail in view of the even division of opinion
already stated; the second cannot, since the bill prays
no affirmative relief in respect of the fraudulent classification it alleges; the third cannot, in the light of our
decision stated under heading 10, supra.
Secondly, the Government urges, since the District
Court has held that, in order to obtain compensation for
the deprivation of rights to select lands lying within the
withdrawn Government reserves, the company must assign base for the lands selected as to which compensation
is claimed, the same principle must apply to selection
rights exercised prior to the Resolution of June 5, 1924.
It adds that the company has failed to show that in
selecting lands within the indemnity limits prior to the
date of that resolution it assigned base for such selections, to which the company replies that the Government is in error in asserting that it did not assign such
base.
The argument with respect to the selected indemnity
lands, which the District Court decreed should be patented to the company, first emerged in this court on
reargument. In its original brief the Government
said:
"The decree quiets title to the lands from the indemnity belts retained by the United States in the forest
reserves and other reserves and directs the issuance of
patents to the company for 428,986.68 acres, mostly in
place limits of the grants. In these and several other
respects the decree is not the subject of this appeal."
It is now said that, despite this concession, the point
was preserved in the record below and is open here. We
cannot agree.
By its exhibits Nos. 149 to 158, inclusive, the company listed the lands in place and indemnity limits
which had been selected for patent amounting to over

U. S. v. NORTHERN PACIFIC RY. CO.
317

371

Opinion of the Court.

455,000 acres. By stipulation of the parties certain of
these were eliminated. Thereafter the Government, by
its exhibits Nos. 103 (Revised) and 210 (Revised) listed
the remaining lands as chargeable to the grant. With
negligible exceptions the master found that they were
so chargeable. In its findings the District Court adopted
the master's ruling and stated definitely in its findings
that the plaintiff took no exception to the master's report in connection with this matter. The court found,
therefore, on the basis of the master's report, that the
total of the lands both in place and indemnity limits so
selected by the company should go to patent. The Government, while not controverting the fact found by the
court that it had taken no exception to this portion of
the master's report, points to an assignment of error filed
on the appeal to this Court asserting that the District
Court erred: "52. In. holding that the railroad is now
entitled to receive patent to any of the indemnity lands
mentioned or referred to in subdivision XVIII of the
court's findings." Subdivision XVIII is that subdivision of the findings in which the court dealt with the
whole matter of patents to be issued for lands selected
prior to the adoption of the resolution of 1924 and does
not deal specifically or separately with indemnity lands
as contrasted with place lands.
It is obvious that the decision of the court sustaining
the Government's position that, in the claim for compensation for loss of indemnity selection rights to lands
within the reserves the company must assign base for
the lands it alleged it lost by their withdrawal, furnishes no justification for the claim that the master or
the District Court was asked to annul and hold ineffectual selection rights exercised with respect to lands outside the reserves which, but for the interposition of Con-.
gress in the Resolution of 1924, would have gone to

372

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

311 U. S.

patent. Moreover, it is not clear from the record
whether the company did in fact assign base in the lists
of selection rights filed, or failed to do so. The implication from the record seems to be that the company .did
assign such base. In any event, we think the point was
not brought to the master's or the court's attention in
any such manner as to justify its being made the basis
of a claim of error in this court. This must have been
the Government's view when the case was first argued.
In the light of its sweeping concession above quoted,
and the state of the record, we are unwilling to disturb
the District Court's decree as respects lands to be patented to the company.
20. The company's claim to indemnity resulting from
the Tacoma overlap.
In its appeal (No. 4) the company challenges tne
rejection of its claim for loss of selection rights in second
indemnity limits appurtenant to the Portland-Tacoma
line. It is urged that the Joint Resolution 'of 1870,
which made a grant in aid of this line, authorized the
creation of second indemnity limits, in the event that
there was a deficiency of lands in first indemnity limits,
to supply loss of place lands lying along the route. The
company insists that when, in 1898, 1902 and 1906,
213,000 acres of land were withdrawn and placed in
national. forests, these withdrawals deprived the company of selection of odd-numbered sections in second indemnity limits, as the 1870 grant was deficient in 1882,
the date of the definite location of the last segment of
the Portland-Tacoma line, and so remained.
For an understanding of the contention certain facts
must be borne in mind. By the Act of 1864 the line
authorized was to run from a point on Lake Superior
to some point on Puget Sound, with a branch via the
Columbia River to a point at or near Portland. By the
Joint Resolution of 1870 the company was authorized to

U. S. v. NORTHERN PACIFIC RY. CO.
317

373

Opinion of the Court.

construct its main line to a point on Puget Sound via the
valley of the Columbia River with the right to construct
its branch from a point on its main line, across the Cascade Mountains to Puget Sound. Thus the resolution
altered what had been, the proposed main line across
the Cascade Mountains into a branch line, and the former branch line to Portland into a section of the main
line running down the Columbia River to Portland and
thence turning north to Puget Sound.. Although by an
Act of 1869 the company had been authorized to construct a line between Portland and Tacoma, and a right
of way had been granted therefor, no grant of lands in
aid of such construction was made until the adoption of
the Resolution of 1870. That resolution in authorizing
the location and construction of this portion of the company's road, did so in these words: "Under the provisions and with the privileges, grants, and duties provided
for in its act of 'incorporation." Obviously the land
grant was the same as that in the charter act, namely,
place lands in a strip extending twenty miles on each
side of the road in states and forty miles on each side
in territories, with an indemnity belt ten miles in width
on either side of the exterior limits of the place grant.
The legislative history of the resolution shows that
Congress was informed the company could not obtain,
in connection with its original grant, all that Congress
intended it should have, for the reason that, prior to
selection of indemnity lands for losses in place lands,
much territory had been removed from the operation of
the Act by pre-emption and settlement under the land
laws. In order to compensate the company for such
losses there was inserted in the Joint Resolution the following: "and in the event of there not being in any
State or Territory in which said main line or branch
may be located, at the time of the final location, thereof,
the amount of lands per mile granted by Congress to said

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

311 U. S.

company, within the limits prescribed by its charter,
then said company shall be entitled, under the directions
of the Secretary of the Interior, to receive so many sections of land belonging to the United States, and designated by odd numbers, in such State or Territory, within
ten miles on each side of said road, beyond the limits
prescribed in said charter, as will make up such deficiency, on said main line or branch, except mineral and
other lands as excepted in the charter of said company
. . . to the amount of the lands that have been
granted, sold, reserved, occupied by homestead settlers;
pre-empted, or otherwise disposed of subsequent to the
passage of the act of July two, eighteen hundred and
sixty-four."

The Resolution made a new grant in aid of the Portland-Tacoma line." The portion of the Cascade branch
(designated as main line in the .Act of 1864) entering
Tacoma from the east was definitely located in 1884.
This location defined the place lands granted by the Act
of 1864. The line authorized by the Joint Resolution
entering Tacoma from the south was definitely located
in 1874, thus earning the grant made by the Resolution.
The place limits forty miles wide to the south of the
Cascade line, and of equal width to the east of the Portland-Tacoma line, overlap. The area of the overlap,
approximately forty miles square, contains alternate sections totaling 637,580 acres. The company says that,
under the 1864 grant pursuant to which the Cascade line
was built, title to the place lands vested in the company
on the date of definite location, as of the date of the
original grant; that these lands were thus lost to the
grant of 1870 appurtenant to the Portland-Tacoma line;
"United States v. Northern Pacific R. Co., 152 U. S. 284; Northern Pacific R. Co. v. DeLacey, 174 U. S. 622; United States v.
Northern Pacific R. Co., 193 U. S. 1.

U. S. v. NORTHERN PACIFIC RY. CO.
317

375

Opinion of the Court.

and that, the company was entitled to indemnity for
them. If this is the right view, 637,580 acres must be
added to the other losses for which indemnity was
needed at the date of the forest withdrawals and thus
the deficiency in the grant required a large quantity of
lands in second indemnity limits through the withdrawn
lands, if any such limits were created in connection with
the 1870 grant. The Land Office construed the Resolution of 1870 as requiring the laying down of second
indemnity limits for the Portland-Tacoma line, and laid
them down in 1906. The master and the court below'
concluded that no place lands were lost to the 1870
grant by the overlap. We are of opinion that they were
right.
Several decisions respecting overlaps of railroad land
grants are cited but none is precisely in point. It seems
to be conceded that if the Cascade branch and the Portland-Tacoma line had been authorized by the same Act
there would have been but a single grant of odd-numbered sections in the overlap and the company could
not have claimed indemnity as for a grant of double aid
in the area." And it is settled that such a grant as
that under consideration is a grant not of lands by quantity but of lands in place or by description." Whether
Congress intended, in connection with its later grant of
1870, to accord the company indemnity for failure to
receive, in aid of the Portland-Tacoma line, lands to
which it would get title in virtue of its definite location
of the Cascade line, is the question. We copnclude that
Congress did not so intend.
See United States v. Oregon & California R. Co., 164 U. S. 526,
537.
'oWinona & St. Peter R. Co. v. Barney, 113 U. S. 618, 627; Barney
v. Winona & St. Peter R. Co., 117 U. S. 228, 231-2; cf. Wisconsin
Central R. Co. v. Forsythe, 159 U. S. 46, 59-60.

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

311 U. S.

It is true that the grant of 1870 was upon the same
terms as that of 1864. Unquestionably the company,
in respect of the line built under the later grant, was
entitled to indemnity for lands granted or disposed of
by the United States to others prior to the grant. Indeed, it would be entitled to indemnity for loss due to
an earlier overlapping grant to another railroad.
The
grant of 1864, carried title to the lands within the overlap to. the company and, therefore, Congress could not
and did not make a second grant of the same lands in
1870. Did Congress intend to grant the company indemnity for a preceding grant, not to a stranger, but to the
company itself? In answering the question we must
bear in mind that if the grants had been contemporaneous no intent to make a double grant, or a grant of
indemnity, would be inferred, and that the two grants
here in question really dealt with'but a single railroad
system. We think it clear that Congress did not intend
to confer a right to indemnity upon the company which
would give it lands double in quantity at the point of
intersection of two of its lines. As, in this view, the
alternate sections in the overlap granted to aid the Cascade line by the Act of 1864, were not a loss to the
grant to the Portland-Tacoma line made by the Resolution of 1870, the latter grant was not deficient and- no
right to select lands in second indemnity limits was
infringed by Government withdrawals.
The appeal in No. 4 is without merit, but, upon the
appeal in No. 3, the judgment is reversed and the cause
is remanded for further proceedings as indicated in this
opinion.
No. , dismissed.
No. 3, reversed.
MR. JUSTICE MURPHY took no part in the consideration or decision of this case.
United States v. Oregon & California R. Co., 176 U. S. 28, 50.

