VOELLER v. NEILSTON CO.
Argument for Respondents.
VOELLER

ET AL.

v. NEILSTON WAREHOUSE CO.
ET AL.

CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF OHIO.

No. 97.

Submitted December 18, 1940.-Decided January 6, 1941.

A state statute providing that, where a corporation authorizes the
sale or other disposition of all or substantially -all of its assets,
a dissenting shareholder shall have the right to be paid the fair
cash value of his shares, and that the amount demanded of the
corporation by the dissenting shareholder as such fair cash value
shall, after six months,-if the corporation does not make a
counter-offer, request an appraisal, or abandon the sale--"conclusively be dee' .ed to be equal to" the fair cash value, held,
in its operation as to majority stockholders, not a deprivation of
their property without due process in violation of the Fourteenth
Amendment, although the statute made no provision for notice
to them as individuals, or opportunity for them to be heard, in
respect to the dissenting stockholder's demand. P. 535.
The corporation sufficiently represents the majority stockholders,
for the purposes of notice and of invoking the jurisdiction of
this Court on the constitutional question. P. 537.
136 Ohio St. 427; 26 N. E. 2d 442, reversed.

p. 624, to review a judgment denying
recovery to minority stockholders upon a state statute
CERTIORARI, post,

held unconstitutional.
Messrs. CarringtonT. Marshall and Orland R. Crawfis

submitted for petitioners.
Mr. Francis J. Wright submitted for respondents.
A statute creating a presumption which operates to
deny a fair opportunity to rebut it deprives of due process. Heiner v. Donnan, 285 U. S.312, 329; Schlesinger
v. Wisconsin, 270 U. S.230; Bailey v. Alabama, 219 U. S.
219. So in the case even of prima facie presumptions.
Manley v. Georgia, 279 U. S.1; Western & Atlantic Railroad v. Henderson, 279 U. S.639.

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Argument for Respondents.

311 U. S.

The controversy here is between two classes orgroups
of shareholders, dissenting and non-dissenting; and only
their individual rights are involved. Geiger v. American
Seeding Machine Co., 124 Ohio St. 222. The corporation,
being in, liquidation, was a mere stakeholder for the
shareholders.
The majority shareholders, though they voted in favor
of the sale and knew that certain votes were cast against
it, were not charged. with notice of further proceedings
taken pursuant to § 8623-72. Section 8623-65 and
§ 8623-72 are separate and distinct; the former deals
with corporate action taken by shareholders, the latter
with the rights of shareholders. Merely because certain
shareholders dissented to certain corporate action, it does
not follow that they will file demands under § 8623-72;
or that, if filed, the demands will be rejected.
The majority shareholders, though they knew of the
authorization of the sale, were not bound to keep themselves advised as to further proceedings by the dissenters.
It is elementary that the board of directors is not
the representative of the shareholders as respects their
individual rights but only in corporate matters. Especially is this so when the corporation is in liquidation
and nothing remains to- be done except distribute the
assets to the shareholders. Only they,; and as individuals,
are interested in the method of distribution. Since only
the individual rights of shareholders inter se were involved, they were themselves entitled to notice. Notice
to the corporation was not notice to the shareholders.
Even 4if it be assumed that they had notice, the majority stockholders still were powerless to act and without
opportunity to be heard.
The Supreme Court of Ohio has held that suggested
procedure by shareholders in behalf of the corporation was not available to the majority shareholders, and
that they had no standing to maintain such an action.

VOELLER v. NEILSTON CO.
531

533

Opinion of the Court.,

This is a decision on the procedural law of Ohio which
will be accepted by this Court. Moreover, the state
court has held that majority shareholders can not maintain an action the object of which is to have the fair
cash value of dissenters' shares determined, this being
limited by the statute to the corporation and the dissenters. This also is a purely procedural matter gov-,
erned solely by the law of Ohio.
MR. JUsTIcE BLAcK delivered the opinion of the Court.

We granted. certiorari in this case to review a decision of
the Supreme Court of Ohio invalidating a state statute on
the ground that it constituted a denial of procedural
due process guaranteed by the Fourteenth Amendment.1
The statute in question provided that the value placed
upon his stock by a dissenting shareholder should, after
six months and under 'certain circumstances, "conclusively be deemed -to be equal to" the fair cash value.2
The state court held that since the statute required that
the demands of the dissenters be made known only to
the corporation, the majority shareholders were unconstitutionally deprived of property without notice and an
opportunity to be heard.
Concretely, .the question was raised here in the following manner: Petitioners, holders of stock' in respondent
corporation, were among those who dissented when a
vote was called on a sale of substantially all the corporate
assets. Two-thirds of the shareholders voted for the
sale, which was thereupon 'consummated. Petitioners
gave written notice to the corporation of their objection,
the number of shares they held, and the claimed fair
cash value of their' stock. The corporation refused in
writing to pay the amount asked, but made no counter136 Ohio State 427, 26 N. E. 2d 442.
Ohio Code Ann. (Throckmorton, 1940) § 8623-72, paragraph 7.

534

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

311 U. S.

offer. Neither party filed a petition for appraisal. After
six months l ad elapsed, petitioners filed suit-in the Court
of Common Pleas, asking that judgment be rendered in
their favor for the amounts originally claimed.
All of these proceedings were in accordance with the
applicable Ohio law;' in their suit, petitioners relied on
a section of that law which provided that the value
claimed by the dissenting shareholders should "conclusively be deemed to be equal to" fair cash value if the
corporation had neither made a counter-offer nor requested an appraisal.' One of the majority shareholders
filed an intervening petition on behalf of herself and all
other shareholders similarly situated, alleging that the
section of the statute involved was unconstitutional. A
judge of the Court of Common Pleas struck out this
intervention at the request of petitioners, saying that
the statute was constitutional, the petition for intervention irrelevant, and the majority shareholders without
standing to intervene.' No appeal was taken from this
ruling. When the case came on for trial on the merits,
a different judge sat, and it was his opinion that the
statute
was unconstitutional. The Coirt of Appeals, one
judge dissenting,
reversed the trial court, and was itself
reversed, two judges dissenting, by the Sup~reme Court
of Ohio.
'Ohio Code Ann. (Throckmorton, 1940) §§ 8623-65, 8623-72.
'The exact language is: "If such petition [for appraisal] is not
filed within such period, the fair cash value of the shares shall conclusively be deemed to be equal to the amount offered to the dissenting shareholder by the corporation if any .such offer shall have been
made by it as above provided, or in the absence thereof, then an
amount- equal to that demanded by the dissenting shareholder as
above provided."
The judge said: "The failure to take*advantage of the statutory.
provisions may result unfortunately for other stockholders, but their
remedy would be against those directors who were derelict in their
duty."

VOELLER v. NEILSTON CO.
531

Opinion of the Court.

It was the opinion of the Supreme Court that the
statute had "an unconstitutional operation against the
majority stockholders, as being violative of the due process section of the Fourteenth Amendment to the federal
Constitution." And the correctness of that conclusion is
the only question properly before this Court. All other
questions presented involve state law, for the conditions
under which corporations shall organize and operate are
matters within the exclusive province of the state, so
long as those conditions do not clash with the national
Constitution.
We agree With petitioner's position that notice to- the
corporation of the demand for payment constituted notice to the majority stockholders, and that such notice
was an adequate compliance with the constitutional requirement of due process. The objective of the Ohio
statute permitting the right of appraisal to dissenting
shareholders was the elimination of abuses that had long
been a fixture in the field of corporate finance.' To
assure* that the right to appraisal would be promptly
resorted to and to provide for the contingency that in
some cases no such resort would be taken, the Ohio legislature thought it advisable to provide that under some
circumstances the original offer or counter-offer should
I At common law, unanimous shareholder consent was a prerequisite
to fundamental changes in the corporation. This made it possible
for an arbitrary minority to establish a nuisance.value for its shares
by refusal to co6perate. To meet the situation, legislatures authorized the making of changes by majority vote. This, however, opened
the door to victimizatiori of the minority. To solve the dilemma,
statutes permitting a dissenting minority to recover the appraised
value of its shares, were widely adopted. See S. E. C. Report-on the
Work of Protective and Reorganization Committees, Part VII, pp.
557, 590. The Ohio appraisal statute here in issue was not adopted
until after respondent had acquired its charter, but the Ohio Constitution expressly reserves to the state the right to alter or repeal the
enrnnrate liw.

Ohio Const., Art. 13, § 2.

1536

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

311 U. S.

conclusively be deemed equal to the fair cash value. The
corporation was given the right to avoid the effect of
being compelled to pay the claimed value either by
making a counter-offer or by requesting an appraisal.
In addition, it was given the right to avoid both appraisal and payment of the claimed value by abandoning
its original purpose to sell its assets. The dissenting
shareholders could, by requesting an appraisal, likewise
avoid accepting the corporation's counter-offer. Thus
the corporation is compelled to pay or the dissenting
shareholder to accept payment of the amount of the
Qffer or counter-offer only if none of the many available
alternatives are pursued before the expiration of a sixmonth period., The provisions, in effect, operate as statutes of limitations. After the lapse of a period of time,
given defenses--attacks on value--can no longer be
asserted.
it is true, as respondent urges, that after the majority authorizes the corporation to effect a sale, the alternatives are thereafter expressly open only to the corporation and the dissenters; no provision.is made for notice
to the majority shareholders as individuals. But the
majority, by their vote approving the sale of assets, have
indicated their intention to remain part and parcel of the
corporation; the dissenters, on the other hand, by voting
against the sale and by demanding payment, have indicated an intention to sever relationships. If thereafter
the failure of the directors to make a counter-offer materially prejudices the'financial stake of the majority, it
is no more a want of due process to consider the majority bound thereby than it is to consider them bound by
. any other act of management. The majority are participants in a corporate enterprise. In entrusting their capital to the corporation, they accept the disadvantages
system along with its advantages. What
of the corporate
claimed to be a disadvantage here is a necessary con-

VOELLER v. NEILSTON
531

O.

Opinion of the Court.

comitant of the system and its most distinctive attribute-representation of the collective interest of shareholders by selected corporate management.
The constitutional issue is here raised for the majority
shareholders by the corporation, which admittedly itself
had notice. Exercising the very delicate responsibility of
passing upon the validity of state statutes, this Court has
many times declared the rule that only those who have
been injured as -the result of the denial of constitutional
rights can invoke our jurisdiction on. constitutional
questions. Yet here the corporation would have us say
that it is sufficiently the representative of the majority
to raise in their behalf the constitutional issue, but not
sufficiently their representative to receive notice. We
hold that, so far as the constitutional requirement of due
process is concerned, it is in this case sufficiently their
we find
representative for both purposes, and accordingly
8
below.
judgment
the
reverse
to
it necessary
There is nothing unusual in such a holding; the rights
of parties are habitually protected in court by those who
act in a representative capacity; an executor or administrator may act for the beneficiaries of an estate; a receiver may represent the collective interests of stockholders, partners, or creditors; a lawyer may appear for
his clients; and a corporation may represent the collective interests of its shareholders. In this case, in fact,
the unappealed ruling of the trial judge on the attempted
intervention by the majority stands as an adjudication
that in those respects- here material the majority had
.committed their interests to the corporation itself.
Reversed.
Tyler v. Judges, 179 U. S. 405; Hendrick v. Maryland, 235 U. S.
610, 621. And see Mr. Justice Brandeis,. concurring, in Ashwander v.
Tennessee Valley Authority, 297 U. S. 288, 347-348, and cases there

cited.
6 Christopher v. Brusselback, 302 U: S. 500, 504; cf. Kersh Lake
Drainage District v. Johnson, 309 U. S. 485, 491.

