FLEISHER CO. v. UNITED STATES.
7

15

Statement of the Case.

pay" provision is clear and unambiguous. Hence, it is
enough here for us to determine what Congress meant
from what it said.
Nor is there substance to the expressed fear that complete acceptance of the words as Congress wrote them
would vest unlimited discretion in the Board, because it
would not. That discretion is narrowly limited, by the
fact that as to "back pay" the Board can in no instance
award any greater sum than "back pay" for the eriod
in which the employee was absent from his employer's
services by reason of his employer's violation of the law.
FLEISHER ENGINEERING & CONSTRUCTION CO.
ET AL..,V. UNITED STATES FOR THE USE AND BENEFIT

OF HALLENBECK.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.
No. 15. Argued October 17, 18, 1940.-Decided Noveinber 12, 1940.
1. The Miller Act of 1935, requiring contractors for public work of
the United States to furnish a payment bond for the protection
of persons supplying labor or materials, provides that a supplier
having contractual relationship not with the contractor furnishing
such bond but with a subcontractor, "shall have a right of action
upon the said payment bond upon giving written notice to said
contractor . . ." The Act further provides that "such notice
shall be served by mailing the same by registered mail . ... " Held
that a suit under the Act was maintainable although the notice
was sent 6 y ordinary mail and not by registered mail, where it was
otherwise sufficient and actually reached one of two 2oint and several contractors. P. 17.
2. With respect to the manner of giving the prescribed notice, the
Act should be liberally construed in aid of its remedial purpose.
P. 18.
107 F. 2d 925, affirmed.

CERTIORARI, 309 U. S. 693, -toreview the affirmance of a
judgment on a bond given Dy two contractors,, with sure-

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

311 U. S.

ties, to secure payment for labor and material supplied
for the performance of a contract with the United States.
Mr. Frank Gibbons for petitioners.
Mr. Edwin J. Culligan, with whom Alice B. Marion
was on the brief, for respondent.
MR. CHIEF JusTIcE HUGHES

delivered the opinion of

the Court.
The United States brought this suit on behalf of George
S. Hallenbeck to recover upon a bond given by Fleisher
Engineering & Construction Company and Joseph A.
Bass, with their sureties, and providing for the payment
for labor and material furnished under a contract ,between
the principals on the bond and the United States for
the construction of a certain housing project. Part of
the labor required by the contract was performed by Hallenbeck for a subcontractor with the approval of the
contractors. The suit was brought under the Miller Act
of August 24, 1935, 40 U. S. C. 270b. Plaintiff obtained
a summary judgment (30 F. Supp. 964) which the Circuit
Court of Appeals affirmed, 107 F. 2d 925.
The applicable provision of the Miller Act is set forth
in the margin.' The question is whether the giving of
'Section 2 of the Act of August 24, 1935, c. 642, 49 Stat. 794, 40

U. S. C., § 270b, provides:
"(a) Every person who has furnished labor or maierial in the
prosecution of the work provided for in such contract, in respect of
which a payment bond is furnished under section 270a of this title
and who has not been paid in full therefor before the expiration of
a period of ninety days after the day on which the last of the labor
was dozie or performed by him or material was furnished or supplied
by him for which such claim is made, shall have the right to sue on
such payment bond for -the amount, or the balance thereof, unpaid at
the time of institution of such suit and to prosecute said action to final
execution and judgment for the sum or sums justly due him: Pro-

FLEISHER CO. v. UNITED STATES.
15

Opinion of the Court.

the required written notice to the contractor was sufficient, as it was not sent by "registered mail." The Circuit Court of Appeals held that as the receipt of written
notice was conceded and the contents of the notice were
adequate, the statute was satisfied. In view of alleged
conflict with the decision in United States for the use of
John A. Denie's Sons Co. v. Bass, 111 F. 2d 965, we
granted certiorari. 309 U. S. 693.
In construing the earlier Act, the Heard Act, for which
the Miller Act is a substitute, we observed that it was
intended to be highly remedial and should be construed
liberally. United States for the.use of Alexander Bryant
Co. v. New York Steam Fitting Co., 235 U. S.327, 337;
Illinois Surety Co. v. John Davis Co., 244 U. S.376, 380;
Fleischmann Construction Co. v. United States, 270 U. S.
349, 360. We recognized that the statute created a new
right of action and that compliance with the prescribed
limitation was essential to the assertion of the right
conferred. Accordingly, as it was provided that a material-man could not bring suit on the contractor's bond
in the name of the United States within six months
from completion and settlement, the Court held that
•vided, however, That any person having direct contractual relationship with a subcontractor but no contractual relationship express or
-implied with the eontractor furnishing said payment bond shall have
a right of action upon the said payment bond upon giving written
notice to said contractor within ninety days from the date on which
such person did or performed the last of the labor or furnished or
supplied the last of the material for which such claim is made, statingwith substantial accuracy the amount claimed and the name of the
party to whom the material was furnished or supplied or for whom
the labor was done or performed. Such notice shall be served by mailing the same by registered mail, postage prepaid, in an envelop addressed to the contractor at any place he maintains an office or conducts his business, or his residence, or in any manner in which the
United States marshal of the district in which the public improvement
is situated is authorized by law to serve summons."
276055--41-2

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

311 U. S.

this provision plainly conditioned the right to sue.
United States ex rel. Texas Portland Cement Co., v.
McCord, 233 U. S. 157, 162, 163. That ruling was
distinguished in the case of the Alexander Bryant Company, supra, where it was held that the provision of the
Act requiring notice to be given to other creditors by
the creditor availing himself of the right to sue within
the specified year, if the Government did not bring suit
within six months after completion, was not "of the essence of jurisdiction over the case" or "a condition of
the liability" of the surety on the bond. In short, a
requirement which is clearly made a condition precedent
to the. right to sue must be given effect, but in determining whether a provision is of that character the statute
must be liberally construed so as to accomplish its purpose. "Technical rules otherwise protecting sureties
from liability have never been applied in proceedings
under this statute." Illinois Surety Co. v. John Davis
Co., supra. The same principle should govern the
application of the Miller Act.
In the instant case, we may lay on one side the fact
that the notice was addressed to the project engineer.
As the court below said, it was admitted that the notice
was in writing and was sent by mail and that it reached
one of the two contractors who had jointly and severally
agreed to perform the contract. -And at this bar, the
actual receipt of the notice and the sufficiency of its
statevents have not been challenged.
'In,giving the statute a reasonable construction in order
t6 ,effect ,its remedial purpose, we think that a distinctionshould be drawn between the provision explicitly
stating the condition precedent to the right to sue and
the proyision as to the manner of serving notice. The
structure of the statute indicates the distinction. The
proviso, which defines the condition precedent to suit,
states that the material-man or laborer "shall have a

FLEISHER 00. v. UNITED STATES.
15

19

Opinion of the Court.

right of action upon the said payment bond upon giving
written notice to said contractor" within ninety days
from the date of final performance. The condition as
thus expressed was fully met. Then the statute goes on
to provide for the mode of service of the notice. "Such
notice shall be served by mailing the same by registered
mail, postage prepaid," or "in any manner" in which
the United States. marshal "is authorized by law to
serve summons." We think that the purpose of this
provision as to manner of service was to assure receipt of
the notice, not to make the described method mandatory
so as to deny right of suit when the required written
notice within the specified time had actually been given
and received. In the face of such receipt, the reason for
a particular mode of service fails. It is not reasonable
to suppose that Congress intended to insist upon an idle
form. Rather, we think that Congress intended to provide a method which would afford sufficient proof of
service when receipt of ttle required written notice was
not shown.
In this view we conclude that the Circuit Court of
Appeals correctly disposed of the case and its judgment is
Affirmed.

