KLOEB v. ARMOUR & CO.
195

199

Statement of .the Case.

lation to the contrary was ineffective to deprive them of
that right.
The judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals is
Reversed.
*MR.JUSTICE ROBERTS took no part in the consideration

and decision of this case.

KLOEB, U. S. DISTRICT JUDGE, v. ARMOUR &
COMPANY..
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SIXTH. CIRCUIT.
No. 65.

Submitted November 18, 1940.-Decided December 9, 1940.

1. Sections 71. and 80, Title 28 U. S. C., 'were designed to prevent
delay over orders remanding causes. They entrust determination
to the informed judicial discretion of the District Court and cut
off review. P. 204.
2. A state Supreme Court, basing its determination exclusively on
the dflegations of a petition to remove, and concluding therefrom
that the cause involved a separable controversy between citizens
of different States, directed removal. The federal District Court,
basing its determination on the entire record, including new facts,
found that there was no separable controversy and that the plaintiff was an alien, and remanded the cause. Held:
(1) The District Court acted within its jurisdiction, pursuant
to §§ 71 and 80, Title 28, U. S. C. P. 204.
(2) The order of remand was not reviewable by the Circuit
Court of Appeals. P. 205.
109 F. 2d 72, reversed.

CERTIORARI, 310 U. S. 621, to review orders of the court
below, in mandamus proceedirngs, which directed the
District Court to set aside remands in five separate
actions.

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

311 U. S.

Messrs. Percy R; Taylor and Nolan Boggs submitted
for petitioner.
- Messrs. Edward W. Kelse'i, Jr., Fred A. Smith, and
Charles J. Faulkner, Jr. submitted for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE McREYNOLDS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
Respondents, Armour & Company, a Kentucky corporation,, by petition obtained from the Circuit Court of
Appeals, Sixth Circuit, an order directing the U. S. District Judge, Northern District of Ohio, to set aside the
remands of five separate actions. 109 F. 2d 72. The
opinion of the court made the following statement concerning the basic issue.,
"A number of persons, including George E. Kniess,
brought suit against Armour and Company in the Court
of Common Pleas of Lucas County for damages claimed
to have been suffered in the consumption of food products, materials for which were prepared by Armour and
Company, but which were processed by a retailer in Toledo by the name of Burmeister. In each of the five
.cases, and upon identical petitions, the plaintiffs joined
Bbrmeister as a defendant on the theory that he aid the
Armour Company were joint tortfeasors. Armour and
Company filed its petitions for removal with the Court of
Common Pleas accompanied by proper removal bonds.
Its petitions were contested by the plaintiffs and were
denied. The Kniess case proceeded to, rial While the
other cases were held in abeyance and it eventually
reached the Supreme Court of Ohio, Kniess v. Armour &
Co., 134 0. S. 432; 17 N. E. 2d 734; 119 A. L. R. 1348.
That court disposed of the case upon the sole ground
that the removal petition should have been allowed, because a separable controversy existed as between plaintiff

KLOEB v. ARMOUR & CO;
199

Opinion of the Court.

and Armour. It stated the law of Ohio to be that where
the responsibility of two tortfeasors differs indegree aZ
in nature, liability cannot be joint and the alleged torts
are not concurrent. Holding that the defendant Armour
and Company had adequately preserved its exceptiong
to the ruling of the lower court, the cause was reversed
and remanded to the Court of Common Pleas with in,
structions to grant the removal petition, and the mandate
directed the Court of Common: Pleas to remove the cause
to the District Court of the United States.
"When the case came before the respondent the plaintiff moved to remand and, notwithstanding the adjudication by the Ohio Supreme Court which had become final,.
the respondent proceeded to take evidence upon the
question of a separable controversy, decided there was
none, that the cause was not removable under the statute,
entered an 6rder to remand the case to the Court of Corn-'
mon Pleas of Lucas County, and denied petitions for*
rehearing."
The District Judge rendered no opinion to support his
actions; but responding to the rule from the Circuit
Court of Appeals to show cause, he cited McNutt v. Gen-.
eral Motors Acceptance Corp., 98 U. S. 178, 'referred*
to affidavits filed in support of the motions and said-that
upon consideration of the entire record, he became satisfied that none of the five suits "really and substantially
involved a dispute or separable controversy wholly between citizens of different states which could be fully
determined as between them, and therefore none of said
causes were within the jurisdiction of the District Courtof the United States, and further that plaintiff Kniess is
an alien."
Title 28, U. S. Code provides-"Section 71-Whenever any cause shall be removed
from any State court into any district court of the United

'202

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.

Opinion of the Court.

311 U. S.

States, and the district court shall decide that the cause
was improperly removed, and order the sam~e to be
remanded to the State court from whence it came,,
such remand shall be immediately carried into execution,
and no appeal or writ- of error from the decision of
the district court •so remanding such cause shall be
allowed."
"Section 80--If in any. suit commenced in a district
court, or removed from a State court to a district court
of the United States, it shall appear to the satisfaction
of the said district court, at any time after such suit has
been. brought or removed thereto, that such suit does
not really and substantially involve a dispute or contro.versy properly within the jurisdiction
of said district
court, or that the parties to said suit have been im-,;
properly or collusively made or joined, either as plaintiffs
or defendants, for the purpose of creating a case cognizable or removable under this chapter, the said district
court shall proceed no further therein,' but shall dismiss
the suit or remand it to the court from which it was removed, as justice may require, and shall make suchi order
as to costs as shall be just.'
Employers Reinsurance Corp. v. Bryant, 299 U. S.
374, 380, 381, says of these sections:V"They are in pari
materia, are to be constrded accordingly rather than as
distinct enactments, anid, when so construed, show, as was
held in Morey v. Lockhart, 123 U, S. 56, 58, that they are.
intended to reach and include all cases removed from
a state court into a federal court and .remanded by the
latter."
The court below concluded: "The District Court had
no power to'determine the issue of separable controversy'
entitling the petitioner to remove because :that issue had
already been adjudicated by the Supreme Court of Ohio,
and the District Court, upon familiar principles, was
bound by such adjudication."

KLOEB v. ARMOUR & CO.
199

Opinion of the Court.

And it said-"It would.seem that in the use in Section
71 of the words 'the district court shall decide,' and in
the employment in Section 80 of the phrase 'it shall appear to the satisfaction of the said district court,' it was
within the contemplation of the Congress that the statute should apply to those cases in which there was some
issue which, as a matter of primary decision, was submitted to the District Judge. It certainly could not
have been intended to apply to decision of a question
which was not properly at issue before the District Judge
since it had already been adjudicated by the Supreme
Court of Ohio in the same proceeding, between the same
parties, and upon the plaintiff's petition. To hold otherwise would be to permit the District Court to defy the
statute 28 U. S. C. A., § 687, which provides: 'The records
and judicial proceedings of the courts of any State
....* shall have such faith and credit given to them
in every court within the United States as they have by
law or usage in the courts of the State from which they
are taken.'"
Also-"The decisions in Employers Reinsurance Corporation v. Bryant, District Judge, supra, and in Re
Pennsylvania Company, supra, must not, in qur judgment, be extended beyond the situations requiring the
application of the rule there announced, that is to say, to
cases where the issue of the petition to remand called for
original and primary decision by the District Court unfettered by the doctrine of res judicata or th.e mandate
of the 'full faith and credit' statute."
"That the decisiQn of the Ohio Court was res judicata
notwithstanding ,the issue was one involving the jurisdiction of a federal Court, is settled by American Surety
Co. v. Baldwin, 287 U. S.156, 53 S. Ct. 98, 77 L. Ed. 231,
86 A. L. R. 298; Baldwin v. Iowa State Traveling Men's
Ass'n, 283 U. S. 522, 51 S.Ct. 517 75 L. Ed. 1244, and
the decision in Evelyn.Trainies, Ptitioner,v. Sunshine

204

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

311 U. S.

_i inlng Co., et al., [308 U. S. 66] 60 S. Ct. 44, 84 L.
Ed. -, announced as recently as November 6, 1939."

"While the precise question here involved is one of
first impression, the Supreme Court in Re Metropolitan
Trust Company, 218 U. S. 312, 31 S. Ct. 18, 54 L. Ed.
1051, has drawn the distinction between orders to remand erroneously issued and those issued by a District
Judge in excess of his authority. The former may not
be challenged by appeal or writ of mandamus-the latter
are a nullity. We think it follows that under general
supervisory powers they may be set aside."
We cannot accept the conclusion of the Circuit Court
of Appeals. It derives from an inadequate appraisal of
the record and of §§ 71 and 80 U. S. Code, supra.
These sections were designed to limit possible, review
of orders remanding causes and thus prevent delay. In
re Pennsylvania Co mpany, 137 U.. S. 451, 454. They
entrust determination concerning such matter to the informed judicial discretion of the district court and cut
off review.
In this cause the-district judge weighed the petitions
and relevant affidavits and concluded that the controversy was not within the jurisdiction of that court. His
clear duty was to proceed no further and to dismiss or'
remand the causes. The statute exempted his action
from review.
The suggestion that the federaldistrict court had no
power to consider the entire record and pass upon the
question of separability, because this point had been
finally settled by the Supreme Court of Ohio, finds no
adequate support,in the cases cited by the opinion below:
Baldwin v.Iowa'aStte Traveling Men's Assn., 283 U. S.
522, American Surety Co. v. Baldwin, 287 U. S.156 and
Treinies v. Suishine Mining Co., 308 U. S.66. None of
these causes involved a situation comparable to the one
-ere presented.

UNITED STATES v. FALCONE.
199

205

Counsel for Parties.

Section 72, Title 28, U. S. Code, provides the requisites
for removing causes from state to federal courts and directs that when complied with, the state court shall proceed no further. The Supreme Court of Ohio declared:
"In passing upon the question of removal, unfortunately
we are limited solely to a consideration of the facts stated
in the petition." It held that upon them the trial court
should have relinquished jurisdiction.
The causes went to the federal district court and additional facts were there presented. As required by the
statute, that court considered all the relevant facts, petitions and affidavits, exercised its discretion and ordered
the remands. Jurisdiction to decide, we think, is clear;
the Circuit Court of Appeals lacked power to review the
remand.
The challenged order must be
Reversed.
UNITED STATES v. FALCONE ET Au
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEAIS. FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No, 42. Argued November 18, 1940.-Decided December 9, 1940.
One who sells materials knowing thaf they are intended for use, or
will be used, in the production o'fillleit distilled spirits, but not
knowing of a conspiracy to commit the"'crime, is not chargeable
as co-conspirator.' P. 210.
109 F. -2d 579, affirmed.

CERTIORARI, 310 U. S.,620, to review a judgment
reversing convictions of conspiracy.
Assistant Attorney General Rogge, with whom So-

licitor General Biddle and Messrs. Raoul Berger, Irwin
L. Langbein, Herbert Wechsler, George P..Kneip, and

W. Marvin Smith were on the brief, for the United
States.

