470

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
311 U. S.

Syllabus.

Z. & F. ASSETS REALIZATION CORP. v. HULL,

SECRETARY OF STATE, E

-AL.*

CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE DISTRICr
OF COLUMBIA.

No. 381.

Argued December 9, 10, 1940.-Decided January 6, 1941.

Holders of awards by the Mixed Claims Commission, United States
and Germany, which were certified by the Secretary of State
under the Settlement of War Claims Act of 1928 and were payable by the Secretary of the Treasury from the special fund
established by that Act, sued to restrain the Secretary of State
from certifying and the Secretary of the Treasury from paying
later awards to other claimants, alleging that because the German
Commissioner had withdrawm, and for other reasons relative to the
power and procedure of the Commission, the later awards were
null and void, and that if allowed to participate in the fund they
would so deplete it that the awards of the plaintiffs could not
be satisfied. After the filing of the bill, and before service, the
awards complained of were certified by the Secretary of State.
Held:
1. That the petitioners were entitled to sue to protect such
interest as they might have under the Act; but as their standing
rested solely upon the provisions of the Act they could not escape
its terms or avoid payments for which the Act is found to provide.
P. 485.
2. The certification by the Secretary of State which the Act
requires as a condition to payment of an award is not a ministerial act Zneaning, merely that the award certified is a genuine
document, but is assurance by the Secretary that the proceedings
leading to the award were such as duly to qualify it for payment
from the special fund. P. 486.
Congress had constitutional power to lodge with the Secretary
of State the authority to consider and pass- upon the regularity
and validity of the awards made by the Mixed Claims Commission for the statutory purpose of qualifying them for payment,
out of the account in the Treasury; and in view of the functions
*Together with N. 382, American-Hawaiian Steamship Co. v.
Hull, Secretary of State, et al., also on writ of certiorari, post, p. 632,
to the Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia.

Z. & F. ASSETS CORP. v. HULL.
470

Argument for Petitioner.

of the Secretary of State, the nature of the claims and the contentions to which they might give rise between the two governments concerned, Congress naturally required his views, with respect to the propriety of paying awards from that fund.
3. There is no basis in this case for concluding that the Secretary of State in certifying the questioned awards acted without
due deliberation or failed to express his considerate judgment, as
the statute contemplated. P. 488.
4. For the purpose of payment under the statute the certification of the Secretary of State is conclusive. P. 489.
It is unnecessary to consider in this case whether Congress
could commit to the judiciary the determination of the validity
of the challenged claims.
5. In view of the statutory -provisions governing the case, there
is no occasion to consider the circumstances in which an international agreement or action thereunder may be deemed to vest
rights in private persons or the scope of such rights in particular
cases.- P. 489.
114 F. 2d 464, affirmed.
CERTIORARI, post, p. 632, to review the affirmance of a
decree dismissing the jbills in suits to restrain action by
the Secretaries of State and of the Treasury.

Mr. Joseph M. Proskauer, with whom Messrs. Frank
Roberson, John F. Condon, Jr., and John Bassett Moore
were on the brief, for Z. & F. Assets Realization Corp.,
petitioner in No. 381.
The conflict between the old award holders and the
sabotage claimants as to their respective rights to payment from the special deposit fund is not a political
controversy beyond the jurisdiction of the courts to
determine.
Where a conflict of property rights under statutes and
treaties is presented, the determination of those rights
by the Executive Department is subject to review by
the courts. Banco de Espafia v. Federal Reserve Bank,
114 F. 2d 438, 442. The doctrine relied on by the Court
of Appeals in this case has no application where, as here,
the decision of property rights could not in any truly

472

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Argument for Petitioner.

311 U. S.

factual sense be deemed an interference with the conduct of our foreign relations by the Executive, nor a
matter for the Executive exclusively to determine. Willoughby, Const. L., 2d ed., § 855, p. 1336; Jaffe, Judicial
Aspects of Foreign Relations, p. 233; The Florence H.,
248 F. 1012; United States v. Watts, 8 Sawyer 370;
United States v. Rauscher, 119 U. S. 407; Tartar Chemical Co. v. United States, 116 F. 726. See also, Head
Money Cases, 112 U. S. 580, 598, 599; Deutsche Bank v.
Cummings, 83 F. 2d 554; 300 U. S. 115; Chae Chan Ping
v. United States, 130 U. S. 581; Coleman v. Miller, 307
U. S. 433, 460.
.The certificate of the Secretary of State is a ministerial
act and not conclusive of the validity of an awaid. Petitioners have a property right in the Special Deposit Fund
and are entitled to bring the action. Cf., Williams v.
Heard, 140 U. S. 529; Comegys v. Vasse, 1 Pet. 193. Cf.,
Houston v. Ormes, 252 U. S. 469; Parish v. MacVeagh,
214 U. S. 124.
This Fund consists of 20% of the German property
seized during the war, unallocated interest thereon, the
specific appropriation by Congress of more than. $86,000,000 and the moneys received under the Paris agreement of January 14, 1925 and under the German-American debt agreement Of June 23, 1930. Report of Secretary of Treasury, June 30, 1939, p. 76. Consequently,
this action comes squarely within the cases holding that,
where Congress has made an appropriation for certain
persons, those persons may resort to the courts for the
enforcement of their right of payment. It is immaterial.
that these were moneys of the United States. As soon as
an appropriation is made, until that appropriation is
withdrawn, the direct beneficiaries of such appropriation
have rights which may be protected in the courts from
improper attack. American-Mexican Claims Bureau v.
Morgenthau,26 F. Supp. 904, 906.

Z. & F. ASSETS CORP. v. HULL.
470

Argument for Petitioner.

The real question is between two classes, of American
nationals, one of which seeks to take from the other the
moneys that had been awarded to it, held in the Treasury
of the United States. Matter of Westbrook, 228 App.
Div. 549, 550.
In view of petitioners' property right, the District
Court had jurisdiction to grant a declaratory judgment
protecting them from payment of awards that were mere
nullities. Moore, Digest, Vol. VII, § 1072, p. 30; Comegys v. Vasse, 1 Pet. 193; Standard Marine Ins. Co. v.
Westchester Ins. Co., 19 F. Supp. 334; aff'd 93 F. 2d
286; cert. den., 303 U. S. 661; Frevall v. Bache, 14 Pet.
95.
The Secretary of State neither reads the evidence nor
hears the arguments of counsel upon it. In no sense,
therefore, can his act preclude subsequent inquiry as to
the validity of the award, either nationally or internationally.
The Secretary of State in this case acted within a few
hours, so had no time to make any judicial inquiry,
which he must have assumed was not called for.
Whenever the executive determination has been held
conclusive in the absence of a statutory provision for a
hearing and determination, the statute has either expressly provided for finality (United States v. Babcock,.
250 U. S. 328, 331), or the character of the executive
determination was such as to admit of no doubt that
discretion had necessarily been conferred. Williamsport
Co. v. United States,'277 U. S. 551, 559; cf., Newport
News Co. v. Schauffler, 303 U. S. 54,. 57; Myers v. Bethlehem Corp., 303 U. S. 41, 50; Adams v. Nagle, 303 U. S.
532.
Certification was no more than a vehicle of notification
to the Secretary of the Treasury that the Commission
had signed, sealed and entered its alleged decision.
True, the Secretary of State might choose to take further

474

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Argument for Petitioner.

311 U. S.

diplomatic action if the action of the Commission were
unsatisfactory to him (either on moral grounds or for
palpable excess of power); but such action would in no
sense spring from the Act of Congress, and hence could
not enlarge the ministerial quality of his function under
the statute. Orinoco v. Orinoco Iron Co., 296 F. 965;
-Mellon v. Orinoco Iron Co., 266 U. S. 121:; Perkins v.
Elg, 307 U. S. 325.
That the Secretary of State in certifying was performing a purely ministerial function, is demonstrated by
the fact that he is frequently called upon to certify to
the. Treasury Department international awards. American-Mexican Claims Bureau v. Morgenthau, 26 F. Supp.
904.
A fortiori is such a certificate not controlling when
made with knowledge of contemplated resort to the
courts and after actual filing of the bill.
If their suit is meritorious, the petitioners are entitled
to have the status quo restored as of the time of the
commencement of the action. Texas & N. 0. R. Co. v.
Northside Belt Ry. Co., 276 U. S. 475, 479.
An action is commenced by the filing of the complaint.
Federal Rules of Civil Procedure, Rule 3. Therefore, the
statement that the service of process was "too late" is
completely unjustified.
The Commission made no awards in favor of the sabotage claimants, because, after the retirement of the German Commissioner, the Commission no longer existed.
The Commission made no awards in favor of the sabotage claimants, because the Commission was functus officio and not empowered to grant a rehearing.
The shares of stock of Agency of Canadian Car &
Foundry Company, Ltd., being entirely owned by Canadian Car Foundry Company, Ltd., a Canadian national,
..the Commission had no jurisdiction to grant it any
award.

Z. & F. ASSETS CORP. v. HULL.
470

Argument for Petitioner.

Since issues of fact are involved, respondent-intervener's application for summary judgment should in any
event be denied.
Mr. Fred K. Nielsen for. American-Hawaiian Steamship Company, petitioner in No. 382.
The court below does not deal specifically with the
fundamental contentions which have been advanced by
the petitioners. They have not contended that there can
be any proceeding in the nature of a judicial review of
.acts of an international commission. They have found
no fault with any act of the Commissioners or the Umpire p.rformed conformably with the terms of the agreement of August 10, 1922. They have not undertaken to
bring about any judicial interference with the conduct of
foreign affairs by executive authorities.
This suit was brought to protect property rights of the
petitioner in funds on deposit in the Treasury. Those
rights and the rights Which the intervener-petitioner undertook. to protect are substantially identical. The
rights have their foundation in (1) treaty stipulations
concluded by the United States and Germany; (2) provisions of an agreement between the two countries to give
effect to those treaty stipulations; and (3) statutory
provisions enacted by Congress to give effect to both the
treaty stipulations and the provisions of the supplemental agreement.
The petitioners have taken the position that the courts
have the power to determine whether statutory provisions found -in the Settlement of War Claims Act of 1928
would be properly or improperl] executed, if action
should be taken conformably to the prayers in the motion. of the intervener-respondent for summary judgment
presented to the District Court and in the motion of the
defendants to dismiss the complaint and the bill of intervention. The law of 1928, of course, contemplates the

476

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Argument for Petitioner.

311 U. S.

payment of valid awards only, that is, awards made in
accordance with the terms of the agreement of August 10,
1922. The petiti(ners have contended that, in passing
on questions with regard to the execution of the law of
1928, the courts have the power to construe the pertinent international covenants, to determine whether or
not valid awards were rendered through the acts of a
single Commissioner and t[We Umpire. The agreement of
August 10, 1922, was incorporated by reference into the
Settlement of War Claims Act of 1928. In construing
and applying the statute, it is necessary and proper for
the Court to construe the agreement. The petitioners
have invoked judicial action with the purpose of protecting important property rights.
The awards said to have been made in favor of the
Lehigh Valley Railroad Company and others were not
valid awards made by the Commissioners nor by the Umpire. The so-called awards are not awards within the
meaning of the provi~ions of the agreement of 1922,
because they are not awards rendered conformably to the
terms and requirements of the agreement. They are
simply individual acts of one Commissioner and the Umpire. Therefore, the payment of these so-called awards
is not authorized by the Settlement of War Claims Act
of 1928. Payment would be a misapplication of funds
which are on deposit in the Treasury Department by virtue of the Settlement of War Claims Act.
Contentions now made by the petitioners with respect
to pertinent stipulations of the agreement of August 10,
1922, are in harmony with the sound construction put
on them by counsel for the United States in the course
of proceedings before the Claims Commission to have
set aside the decision of the Commission dismissing in
1930 the claims of the Lehigh Valley Railroad Company
and others. That construction counsel for the respond-

Z. & F. ASSETS CORP. v. HULL.
470

Argument for Petitioner.

ents, the two cabinet officers, do not now undertake to
discard, but they argue the case involves political questions.
A determination of the issues in the present case would
not result in an interference by the Judiciary in political
affairs arising in the conduct of foreign relations. Those
issues involve justiciable questions and not so-called
political questions, such as were controlling in numerous
cases cited in the opinion of the Court of Appeals.
Some diplomatic exchanges referred to by the Court
of Appeals have no bearing on questions pertaining to
the power of courts of the United States to construe
federal statutory provisions and international covenants
for the purpose of protecting private property rights or
the interest of the Government, its material interests
and its interest in the observance of international covenants.
This diplomaic correspondence does reveal facts to
the effect that one party to the pertinent covenants has
challenged the validity of. acts which the petitioners contend are void. It also reveals that the Secretary of State
declined to enter into a diplomatic discussion of rules
and principles of law determinative of questions as to
the propriety of these acts which the petitioners contend
cAy not legally have the 'effect of disposing of the large
funds on deposit in the Treasury.
The petitioners take the position that the court has
the power to pass on these questions so far as their proper
disposition rests with the authorities of the Government
of the United States. That is, the court is competent
to take appropriate action looking to a proper application of the Settlement of War Claims Act in the light
of a rational interpretation of some unambiguous terms
of the agreement of August 10, 1922, terms of a very
conventional character often employed in international
practice.

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Argument for Respondents.

311 U. S.

The proceeding instituted in the District Court is a
"case" within the meaning of Art. III, § 2, Cl. 1 of the
Constitution.
Solicitor General Biddle, with whom Assistant Attorney General Shea, and Messrs. Melvin H. Siegel and
FrancisJ, McNamara were on the brief, for Cordell Hull,
Secretary of State, and Henry Morgenthau, Secretary of
the Treasury, respondents.
The question of the validity of the sabotage awards is
of a political character, is conclusively determined by the
certificate of the Secretary of State, and is not open to
judicial inquiry.
Apart from statute, the question of the validity of the
sabotage awards is for the exclusive determination of
the Executive Department.
The claims of American nationals against Germany
presented to the Commission are the claims of the United
States; and funds held by the United States for the payment of awards are the property of the United States
until paid to the private claimants.
Apart from the statute, the Secretary of State may
accept or reject the sabotage awards in his sole discretion
until payment is ultimately made to the private claimants.
The authority of the Secretary of State to accept or
reject the sabotage awards in his sole discretion is recognized and confirmed in 'the Settlement of War Claims
Act.
. Irrespective of the political nature of the inquiry, certification of the sabotage awards by the Secretary of State
is conclusive, and not subject to judicial review.
Mr. William D. Mitchell, with whom Messrs. Frederic
R. Coudert, Lester H. Woolsey, Amos J.. Peaslee, and
John J. McCloy were on the brief, for Lehigh Valley
Railroad Company, intervener-respondent.

Z. & F. ASSETS CORP. v. HULL.
470

Argument for Respondents.

The validity of the awards is not open to inquiry in
the courts and the case does not present a justiciable
controversy.
The question of the validity of the awards, involving
as it does a dispute between the two Governments about
the jurisdiction and powers of the Commission and the
interpretation and effect of an international compact between the United States and Germany, is a political
matter involving foreign relations, in which under our
Constitution, the Judicial Department may not interfere.
The provisions of the Settlement of War Claims Act
of 1928 routing awards of the Commission through the
State Department for certification to the Treasury, instead of having the awards certified by the Commission
to the Treasury, is a legislative recognition. of the fact
that the subject is one involving our agreements and
relations with a foreign government, and gives the Secretary of State the opportunity to hold up an award, if
he believes that it did an injustice to Germany, or for
any other reason requires correction. The Secretary of
State had full power to refrain from certifying an award
if it should seem open to objection. Frelinghuysen v.
Key, 110 U. S.63; Boynton v. Key, 139 U. S. 306; La
Abra Silver Mining Co.v. United States, 175 U. S.423.
The decisions of the Commission, including those respecting its powers and jurisdiction, are not open to
review or collateral attack in the domestic courts.
If the question as to the validity of the awards is considered, their.validity should be upheld.
The retirement of the German Commissioner did not
deprive the Umpire and the American Commissioner of
power to dispose of the cases.
The claim that there were genuine issues as to material
questions of fact, which made it improper to grant summary judgment, is not properly raised and is devoid of
merit.

480

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

MR. CHIEF JUSTICE HUGHES

.311U.*S.

delivered the opinion of

the Court.
Petitioners, Z. & F. Assets Realization Corporation and
American-Hawaiian Steamship Company, are holders of
awards of the Mixed Claims Commission, United States
and Germany. These awards have been certified by the
Secretary of State and are thus payable out of the fund
established by the Settlement of War Claims Act of
1928.1 Petitioners seek a judgment declaring that later
awards purporting to be made by the Mixed Claims Commission in favor of the Lehigh Valley Railroad Company,
the Agency of Canadian Car and Foundry Company,
Limited, the Bethlehem Steel Company and others, are
null and void, and restraining the certification of these
awards by the Secretary of State and their payment by
the Secretary of the Treasury. The Lehigh Valley Railroad Company intervened as a defendant.
Defendants, the Secretary of State and the Secretary
of the Treasury, moved to dismiss petitioners' bills for
want of jurisdiction and for failure to state a claim upon
which relief could be granted. The intervener defendant
filed an answer and moved for summary judgment. The
District Court dismissed the bills (31 F. Supp. 371) and
its judgment was affirmed by the Court of Appeals. 114
F. 2d 464. We granted certiorari, post, p. 632.
The Mixed Claims Commission, United States and
Germany, was set up pursuant to an agreement of August 10, 1922,2 to determine the amount to be paid by
Germany in satisfaction of her financial obligations under
the Treaty of Berlin of August 25, 1921.1 The Commission consisted of three members, one appointed by the
United States, another by Germany, and an Umpire se45 Stat., 254.

'42 Stat. 2200.
'42 Stat. 1939.

Z. & F. ASSETS CORP. v. HULL.
470

Opinion of the Court.

lected by the two Governments.

The Umpire was "to

decide upon any cases concerning which the commissioners may disagree, or upon any points of difference that
may arise in the course of their proceedings." It was further provided that should the Umpire or any of the
Commissioners die or retire, or be unable for any reason
to discharge his .fUnctions, the vacancy should be filled
in the same manner as the original appointment. It was
agreed that the decisions of the Commission and those
of the Umpire should be accepted as final and binding
upon the two Governments.
The Settlement of War Claims Act of 1928 created in
the Treasury a "German Special Deposit Account." Section 2 provided that the Secretary of State should certify
from time to time to the Secretary .of the Treasury the
awards of the Mixed Claims Commission, and the Secretary of the Treasury was directed to pay out of the
amounts placed in the account the principal of each
award so certified, with interest as stated.
The claims covered by the awards attacked by petitioners arose out of the destruction of property caused by
explosions at Black Tom and Kingsland, New Jersey, in
1916 and 1917. These claims were dismissed by the Commission in 1930, and petitions for rehearing were denied
in 1931 and 1932. In the following year the American
agent sought to reopen the cases upon the ground that
in its decision of 1930 the Commission had been misled
by "fraudulent, incomplete, collusive and false evidence"
on the part of witnesses for Germany. The German
Government denied the power of the Commission to reopen and the Umpire, Mr. Justice Roberts, finding that
there was a disagreement upon the question between the
Commissioners, decided, in December, 1933, that the
Commission was competent to determine its own jurisdiction by the interpretation of the Agreement ereating
it. The Umpire "further decided that, while the Com276055*-41" " 81

482

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

311 U. S.

missiorA was Without power to reopen a case merely for
the presentation of after-discovered evidence, the Commission was still sitting as a court and did have power
to consider the charge that it had been misled by fraud
and collusion, and for that purpose to reopen the cases in
order that it might consider the further evidence tendered by the American -agent, and that offered in reply
on behalf of Germany, and either confirm the decisions
'theretofore made or alter them as justice and right might
demand.
Thereafter, the German agent filedvan answer denying
the allegations of fraud and evidence was presented.
After argument, the Commission, in June, 1936, rendered a decision, the German Commissioner concurring,
by which the ruling f 1932 denying a rehearing was set
aside, and the question whether there should be a rehearing was reserved for a hearing which should be separate * And distinct from an argument on the merits
unless Germany should consent to a different course.
Efforts to obtain a settlement of the claims were unsuccessful and, after much additional evidence had been
introduced, the Commission,. in January, 1939, heard extepded arguments by the agents of the respective Governments. The American agent had requested that the
Commission should not only set aside the original decision of 1930 but should also proceed :to a final decision
on the merits, as it was contended that the evidence presented to support the application for rehearing also establisheid the responsibility of Germany for the destruction of the property as claimed. It also appears that the
German Commissioner insisted that, before the motion
for rehearing should be granted, the Commission should
examine. the proofs tendered by the United States to determine whether the claims had been made good. This,
as stated by the Umpire, was upon the ground that even
though the Commission had been misled by false and

Z. & F. ASSETS CORP. v. HULL.
470

Opinion of the Court.

fraudulent testimony, that would be immaterial if, upon

an independent consideration, the United States in its
own cases had failed to sustain its burden of proof. The
American Commissioner and the Umpire thereupon had
agreed to go beyond what they thought the necessary
function of the Commission in the circumstances and had
proceeded to canvass with the German Commissioner the
cases as made by the UnitedStates.
During the course of that investigation, on March 1,
1939, the German Commissioner withdrew from the Commission. At the time of his withdrawal, the two Commissioners, according to the contention of the American
Commissioner and as found by the Umpire, were in disagreement upon the points in issue. On receiving notice
of a meeting of the Commission to be held on June 15,
1939, the German agent said that he would not appear
and the German Embassy advised the Secretary of State
that, since the withdrawal of the German Commissioner,
the Commission was incompetent to make decisions.
At the meeting held pursuant to the notice, the American Commissioner filed a certificate of disagreement with
an opinion sustaining the jurisdiction of the Commission. The Umpire thereupon decided that there did exist
a disagreement between the two Commissioners,-& dis-.
agreement of which he was personally cognizant and
which was also shown by the certificate and opinion of
the American Commissioner; that the jurisdiction of the
Commission was not ousted by the withdrawal of the
German Commissioner "after submission by the parties,
and after the tribunal, having taken the cases under advisement, pursuant to its rules, was engaged in the task
of deciding the issues presented"; that the United
States "had proved its allegation that fraud in the evidence presented by Germany misled the Commission and
affected its decision in favor of Germany"; and that upon

.484

..

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

311 U. S.

the record as it then stood the cases for the claims were
ou ,
made
Thereupon,
the American agent moved for awards in
favor of the United States on behalf of the sabotage
clainzntl. An order was entered setting aside the decision of 1930, and determining that the liability of Germany had .been established and that, as it appeared that
G6rmany did not intena to take part in further proceedings of the Commission, awards should be made upon the
Commission's findings and opinion.
On October 3, 1939, the German Charg6 d'Affaires addressed an elaborate communication to the Secretary of
State making a detailed statement supplementary to a
note of July 11, 1939, with respect to the alleged,'illegal
acts of the Umpire, :and protesting against all further
measures by the Umpire, the American Commissioner
and the American agent, which were aimed at securing
awards in the Black Tom and Kingsland cases. The
Secretary of State replied, on October 18, .1939, that it
would be highly inappropriate for the Department to
endeavor to determine the course of the proceedings of
the Commission; that thd Secretary had entire confidence in the ability and integrity of the Umpire and the
Commissioner appointed by the United States despite
the severe' and, as he believed, "entirely unwarranted
criticisms," and that he was constrained to invite attention to the fact "that the 'remarkable action of the Commissioner appointed by Germany was appareritly designed to frustrate or postpone indefinitely the work of
the Commission at a time when, after years of labor on
the particular cases involved, it was expected that its
functions would-be brought to a conclusion.!'
Notice was given of a meeting of. the Commission to
be held on October 30, 1939, which the German Coinmissioner did not attend, and awards were then made
in favor of the claimants. The Umpire stated ,that he

Z. & F. ASSETS CORP. v. HULL.
470

485

Opinion of the Court.

had found the awards to be accurately and properly calculated and had joined the American Commissioner in
signing. them.
The awards were certified by the. Secretary of State
to the Secretary of the Treasury on October 31, 1939,
pursuant to the Settlement of War Claims Act of 1928..
On the same day, this suit was brought, the complaint
being filed before, and process being served on the Secretary of State after, his certification of the awards.
The Court of Appeals has held that the qtiestion with
respect to the validity of the awards in favor of the
sabotage claimants is political in its nature and that the
DistriCt Court was without jurisdiction to entertain it.
There are, however, certain preliminary questions
whic are indubitably appropriate Aor judicial consideration, and we think that the proper answer to these-questions is determinative of the whole case.
The first question is whether petitioners have standing
to bring this suit. Except for the situation created by
the Settlement of War Claims Act of 1928, they would
have no such standing. They could not be heard to
complain of abtion upon claims other than their own.
And Congress, with or without award could provide for
the payment of the claims in question without let or
hindrance by petitioners. But petitioners contend that
the Settlement of War Claims Act created a fund in the
Treasury, known as the "German Special Deposit Account"; that petitioners with other earlier award-holders
are entitled by the Act to payment out of that fund;
that the fund is insufficient to pay petitioners' claims in
full if payments are permitted to be made .to the sabotage claimants; and hence that petitioners have standing
to complain of an unlawful depletion of the fund to their
injury by means of such payments.
We .think that in these circumstanoes as shown by the
bills petitioners are entitled to sue to protect such inter-

486

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

311 U. S.

ests as they may have under the Act. Compare Houston
v. Ormes, 252 U. S. 469; Mellon v. Orinoco Iron Co., 266
U. S. 121. But as their standing rests solely upon the
provisions of the Act, they may not escape its terms or
succeed in a challeng, to payments for which the Act is
found to provide.
The next question is- with respect to the effect that
be given under the terms of the statute to the
should
action of
the Secretary of State in certifying the
awards.
Congress has authorized and required the Secretary of
the Treasury to pay out of the special account the awards
which the Secretary of State has certified. There is no
question that the Secretary of State has given his certificate in this instance. It is adequate in form and
substance under the terms of the Act.
Petitioners contend that the certification is a mere
ministerial act. 'It is said to mean merely that the award
is a genuine document, in the same sense that a notary
public authenticates the signature of a grantor in a deed.
We think that this construction of the Act is inadmissible.
The notarial conception of the function of the Secretary
of State in this matter ignores his r6le in the conduct
of foreign affairs as the right hand of the Executive and
in particular his relation to proceedings for the determination of claims of the United States against foreign
governments. There can be no doubt of the constitutional authority of Congress to lodge with the Secretary
of State the authority to consider aqd pass upon the
regularity and validity of the awards made by the Mixed
Claims Commission for the statutory purpose of qualifying them for payment out of the account in the Treasury.
Congress had complete power to decide what payments
should be made from that account and to attach such
conditions as it saw fit. Congress not only had this
power but it was natural and appropriate that Congress
should entrust to the Secretary of State the decision

Z. & F. ASSETS CORP. v. HULL.
470

Opinion of the Court.

of questions that might arise with respect to the propriety of the payment of awards made by the Commission
and to require his affirmative action through certification
before payment. The Mixed Claims Commission had
been created by an executive agreement. The claims to
be considered by the Commission were only those sponsored and presented by the United States against Germany. They were presented as claims of the United
States, the national claimants themselves having no
standing save as they were represented by the United
States. See Frelinghuysenv. Key, 110 U. S. 63, 75, 76;
Boynton v. Blaine, 139 U. S. 306, 323, 325; Williams v.
Heard, 140 U. S. 529, 537, 538. The claims so sponsored were presented and handled by an American agent
appointed by the President. It was obvious, as the present contentions abundantly illustrate, that the proceedings before such a commission might easily give rise to
questions between the governments concerned and might
involve diplomatic representations or protests with which
it would be the duty of the Secretary of State to deal.
Whatever might be said of such representations or
protests, or the occasion for them, or with respect to the
existence of any international right or obligation arising
from the agreement setting up the Commission, Congress
could, and naturally would, require the views of the
Secretary of State before appropriating money for the
payment of awards, and, in creating a special fund for
that pu pose, would look to the Secretary of State for
the exercise of his appropriate authority on behalf of
the Executive and thus for his judgment upon the question whether the proceedings had been such as duly to
qualify the awards for payment. See Frelinghuysen v.
Key, supra;Boynton v. Blaine, supra. We find nothing
in the Settlement of War Claims Ai which points to
a different purpose.

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

311 U. S.

It is suggested that the Secretary of State construed
his action in certifying as merely ministerial because he
acted at once on the presentation of the awards. But
the argument overlooks the fact that the Secretary of
State had long been cognizant Qf the questions that had
arisen in relation to the Commission's authority to grant
a rehearing and make 'the awards. As early as October,
1933, the German Government had notified the Secretary of State that it regarded the Commission as without akithority to grant a rehearing on the sabotage claims.
The Secretary of State had informed the American agent
that the questionof jurisdiction was one properly to be
decided by the Commission itself and he directed the
American agent to bring the matter to the attention of
the American Commissioner, or the full Commission, for
the purpose of obtaining the decision of the Umpire on
that disputed point. In March, 1939, the American
Commissioner informed the Secretary of State of the
withdrawal of the German Commissioner and reviewed
the circumstances. In June, 1939, petitioners themselves
formally communicated to the Secretary of State their
objections to the proceedings. In the same month the
German Embassy advised the Secretary of State that its
Government regarded the Commission as incompetent
to make decisions because of the German Commissioner's"
withdrawal. This was followed by a further protest delivered to the Secretary of State in July and a detailed
statement by the German Government of its grounds in
its communication of October 3, 1939, to which the Secretary -of State replied on October 18, 1939, in the note
from which we have quoted. Thus, when the actual
awards were presented the Secretary of State had before
him these diplomatic representations and was fully conversant with all the proceedings of the Commission, with
the action of the German Commissioner and the attitude
of his Government, and with the contentions of peti-

Z. & F. ASSETS CORP. v. HULL.
470

Opinion of the Court.

tioners. We find no basis for concluding that the Secretary of State in certifying the awards did not act after
due deliberation, or fail to express his considerate judgment, as we think the statute contemplated.
We are of the opinion that for the purpose of payment under the statute the certificate of the Secretary of
State must be deemed to be conclusive. We do not need
to consider whether Congress could commit to the judiciary the determination of the validity of the challenged.
claims (See La Abr'a Silver Mining Co. v. United States,
175 U. S. 423), for Congress has not done so but has
made payment out of the fund depend upon the Secretary's certificate. The question in this relation is simply
one of the intent of Congress as disclosed by the Act.
Congress has expressly directed payments to be made
from the special account of the awards "so certified."
The literal and natural import of this provision is that
finality is to be accorded to the certificate of the Secretary of State and we perceive no ground for limiting the
terms of the Act by construction. On the contrary, the
nature of the questions presented and their relation to
the conduct of foreign affairs within the province of the
Secretary of State support the conclusion that the statute
should have effect according to its explicit terms.
In view of,the statutory provisions governing this case,we have no occasion to consider the circumstances in
which an international agreement, or action thereunder,
may-be deemed to vest rights in private persons, or the
scope of such rights in particular cases. See Comegjjs v.
Vasse, 1 Pet. 193; Mellon v. Orinoco Iron Co., supra. Petitioners must claim solely by virtue of their interest in
the fund created by the statute and under its terms they
are not entitled to complain of payments out of that'
fund of awards which the Secretaryof State has certified
The judgment of the 0ourt of Appeals is
Affirmed.
[Over.]

490

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
BLAcK, J., concurring.

311 U. S.

MR. JUSTIcE ROBERTS took no part in the consideration
or decision of this case.
MR. JusTIcE BLAcK,

concurring:

JusTICE DOUGLAS and I concur in the judgment of
affirmance but on the ground that the petitioners set
up no justiciable controversy which the court had power
to determine. The questions raised by the petitions involve relations between the United States and Germany,
which we believe are constitutionally committed exclusively to the legislative and executive departments.
The sole ground upon which petitioners prayed relief
in the District Court was that awards made by the Mixed
Claims Commission Were "wholly null and void and
without jurisdiction on the part of the alleged Commission." A declaratory judgment was sought to have the
awards declared null and void, and to enjoin the Secretary of State from certifying and the Secretary of the
Treasury from paying such awards made by the
Commission. In addition petitioners asked a mandatory
injunction to require the Secretary of the Treasury to
pay petitioners without regard to other awards of the
Commission certified by the Secretary of State.
The Secretary of State and the Secretary of the Treasury moved to dismiss on the grounds, among others,
that the complaint stated no cause of action; the court
had no jurisdiction, to review the action of the Mixed
Claims Commission; the court was without power to pass
upon the jurisdiction of the Mixed Claims Commission;
and the court had no jurisdiction to restrain the Secretary of State from certifying awards of the Commission
or to enjoin the Secretary of the Treasury from paying
the claims so certified. The District Court dismissed
and the Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed on the ground
that the actions of th',Mixed Claims Commission in
making awards and the Secretary of State in certifying
MR.

Z. & F. ASSETS CORP. v. HULL.
470

BLACK,

491'

J., concurring.

them were committed for determination to the political
department of government and therefore the courts were
without power to review their determination. We agree
with their conclusion. And in this vie4€ we believe the
certifications of the Secretary of State must be deemed
final and conclusive in the courts, not because the conduct of the Secretary and the Commission preceding
certification meets approval of the. courts, but because
power to make final determination rests with the political departments of government alone.
The fundamental questions raised by the petitions aA
presented to the District Court, were: Who can challenge the propriety of the Commission's awards? Does
the judicial branch of government, rather than the political, possess the power finally to determine the propriety of the awards? And the fact that petitioners sought
to challenge the Commission's power by proceedings
against the Secretaries of State and the Treasury, ,nd
not by direct suit against the Commission, is immate ial.
If petitioners cannot directly attack the Commission in.
the courts, neither can they, in the absence of Congres-,
sional consent, assail the propriety of its awards through
the expedient of suits against others charged with responsibility for executing the final determination of the
Commission.
The Mixed Claims Commission was set up pursuant
to an agreement between the United States and Germany.
The'agreement gave the Commission full power to hold
hearings to determine "the amount to be paid by Grmany in satisfaction of Germany's financial obligationi8a
under two treaties previously made between the two"
countries. The agreement further provided that "the
decisions of the Commission,and those of the Umpire
(in case there may be any) shall be accepted as:final
and binding upon the two governments." The Corn-.
mission was set up with an Umpire and all of the awards

492

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
BLACK, J., concurring.

311 U. S.

were. reported to the Secretary of State by the Commission.
While petitioners contend that they have the rtight
to -challenge the certification of, the Secretary of State,
it is to ,be remembered that their petitions ultimately
rest solely upon the premise that it is his duty to refuse
to carry out the Commission's awards because of alleged
imprdpriety of the proceedings of the Commission.
They say that 'the Commission was without jurisdiction
and power to nake awards to certain claimants other
than tlemselves; payment of -these a-wards out of a
fund that is limited in amount will result in diminishing,
paypnelitsto them below the full amount of their award
with inteiest; since the Commission was without poweras $hey charge-to make these other awards, the Secretat'y of State should not have certified them for payment;
and for the same reason the Treasury should not pay
them. They assert a right through court procedure to
challenge payment to 'the other claimants by reason of
an Act of Congress of 1928.1
But the 19!, Act provides that the Secretary shall
from time to.time certify to the Secretary of the Treasury
the awards of the Mixed Claims Commission of the
United States, and that the Secretary 'of the Treasury is
authorized anl directed to pay "the principal of each
award so certified, plus the interest thereon, in accordance with the faward, . . ." Nowhere in the Act is there
any language which either expressly or by fair implication indicates! a purpose of Congress to permit some
claimants to resort to the courts--as petitioners here have
done-to determine the propriety of awards by the Mixed
Claims Commission to other claimants.
The exact challenge made by petitioners against the
awards of the Commission is the subject of a diplomatic
. 145" Stat. 254.

Z. & F. ASSETS CORP. v. HULL.
470

BLACK, J., concurring.

controversy between the United States and GMrmany.
Germany's contention is the same as petitioners'. And
the Secretary of State, in charge of our foreign affairs,
has declined to accede to Germany's contention that the
particular awards here in controversy were improper and
should not be certified or paid. The immediate subject
matter of petitioners' complaint, upon which rests the
power of the Court to act, if it has any power, has therefore been repudiated by the political branch of our government. A contrary conclusion by the courts would
bring about a square clash between the exec4tive and
judicial branches of government. And far more than
this. Whoever is entrusted finally to determine what
government must or must not do in. a dispute between
nations is the ultimate arbiter of momentous questions
of public policies affecting this nation's relations with
the other countries of the world.
The controversy here bears all th earmarks of that
type of controversies which our Constitution hak confided exclusively to the executive or political departihents
of government, and concerning which this Court has
many times repeated "that the action of the politica
branches of the government in a matter that belongs to
them, is conclusive." ' Since this clearly appeared from
the face of the pleadings at the very outset, the District
Court properly stayed its hands and renounced power to
proceed.

Williamsvv. Suffolk Insurance Co., 13 Pet. 415, 420; United States
ex rel. Boynton v. Blaine, 139 U. S. 306, 320, 321, 322-6; Frelinghuysen v. Key, 110 U. S. 63. No good purpose would be served by
setting out the numerous decisions of this Court to the same effect..
For a collection of such cases see Digest of the U. S. Supreme Court
Rteports, vol. 4, Courts, §§ 49163.

