U. S. v. APPALACHIAN POWER CO.
Syllabus.

UNITED STATES v. APPALACHIAN ELECTRIC
POWER CO.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FOURTH CIRCUIT.

No. 12.

Argued October 14, 15, 1940.-Decided December 16, 1940.

1. Upon review of a case involving the scope of the federal com-

merce power in relation to licensing by the Federal Power Commission of a hydroelectric dam, this Court may determine for
itself whether a particular waterway is a navigable water of the
United States, and it is not precluded by the rule that factual
findings concurred in by two courts below will be accepted here
unless clear error is shown. P. 403.
2. The ultimate conclusion as to whether a particular waterway is a
navigable water of the United States, and the judicial standards
to be applied in making the determination, involve questions of
law inseparable from the particular facts to which they are
applied. P. 404.
3. A waterway which by reasonable improvement can be made
available for navigation in interstate commerce is a navigable water
of the United States, provided there be a balance between cost
and need at. a time when the improvement would be useful.
P. 407.
4. In such case, it is not necessary that the improvement shall have
been already undertaken or completed nor even that it shall have
been authorized. P. 408.
5. A navigable water of the United States does not lose that character because its use for navigation in interstate commerce has
lessened or ceased. Pp. 408, 409.
6. A waterway may be a navigable water of the United States for a
part only of its course. P. 410.
7. Lack of commercial traffic does not preclude the classification of a
waterway as a navigable water of the United States where personal
or private use by boats demonstrates it availability for the simpler types of commprcial navigation. P. 416.
8. Upon the facts of this case, held that the New River, from Allisonia, Virginia, to Hinton, West Virginia, is a navigable water of
the United States. Pp. 410, 418-419.
9. it is within the constitutional power of Congress to require that
a federal license be obtained for the erection or maintenance of a

378

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Syllabus.

311 U. S.

structure in a navigable water of the United States, even though
the sole purpose of the structure be the generation of electric
power. Pp. 424, 426.
10. The authority of Congress over navigable waters of the United
States is not limited to control for the purposes of navigation only,
but is as broad as the needs of commerce. P. 426.
11. In the exercise of' its power over a navigable water of the
United States, Congress may forbid the placing of an obstruction
therein, or may grant the privilege on such terms as it chooses;
and it is no objection that its exercise of power in this respect
is attended by the same incidents which attend the exercise of
the police power of the States. P. 427.
12. The Federal Power Act provides that licenses issued by the
Federal Power Commission, for projects required by the Act to
be.licensed, shall contain certain conditions. Section 10 (a) requires that the project be best adapted to a comprehensive plan
for improving or developing the waterway for the use or benefit
of interstate or foreign commerce, for the improvement and
utilization of water-power development, and for other beneficial
public uses, including recreational purposes; § 10 (c) requires that
the licensee maintain the project adequately for navigation and
for efficient power operation, maintain depreciation reserves adequate for renewals and replacements, and conform to the Commission's regulations for the protection of life, health and property;
§ 10 (d) requires that out of surplus earned after the first 20 years
above a specified reasonable rate of return, the licensee maintain
amortization reserves to be applied in reduction of net investment;
§ 10 (e) requires the licensee to pay to the United States reasonable
annual charges for administering the Act, and authorizes the
United States during the first 20 years to expropriate excessive
profits unless or until the State prevents such profits; § 14 gives
the United States the right, upon expiration of a license, to take
over and operate the project by paying the licensee's "net investment,"'not to exceed the fair value of the pr9perty taken. Held
that respondent, a power company which, under license from the
State, had undertaken the construction of a hydroelectric dam in
New River, could be compelled, in a suit brought by the United
States, to obtain from the Commission a license containing conditions authorized by §§ 10 (a), (c), (d), (e) and 14; or, in
the alternative, to remove its works from the river.
(1) The validity of other provisions of the license, challenged
only generally as unrelated to navigation, not decided. P. 420,

U. S. v. APPALACHIAN POWER CO.
377

Argument for the United States.

(2) The fact that the provisions of § 14 for' acquisition by
the United States at the expiration of the license period vitally
affect the establishment and financing of respondent's project,
requires that the question of the validity of the section and of
the license provisions based upon it be determined now, and that
the determination be not deferred until the right matures and
the United States proceeds to exercise it. P. 421.
(3) Assuming, without deciding,. that by compulsion of the
method of acquisition provided by § 14 and the required license,
riparian rights of the, respondent may ultimately pass to the
United States for less than their* value, this must be regarded
as the price which the respondent must pay for' the privilege to
maintain the dam, and does not involve a violation of the Fifth
Amendment. P. 427.
(4) The license conditions here considered have an obvious
relationship to the exercise of the commerce power. P. 427.
(5) The provisions for future acquisition of the project by the
United States is not an invasion of the sovereignty of the State.
P. 428.
13. A valid exercise by Congress of the power delegated to it by
the commerce clause can not constitute an encroachment on state
sovereignty in violation of the Tenth Amendment. P. 428.
14. The Court confines its decision in this case to the concrete legal
issues presented, and does not undertake to determine abstract
questions as to the relative rights of the States and the United
States in respect to the development and control of water power.
P. 423.
107 F. 2d 769, reversed.
CERTIORARI, 309 U. S. 646, to review the affirmance of
a decree dismissing a bill brought by the United States
against the power company to enjoin the construction of
a dam in the New River. Opinion of District Court, 23
F. Supp. 83.

Solicitor General Biddle, with whom Messrs. John W.
.Aiken, Warner W. Gardner, Melvin H. Siegel, William
S. Youngman, Jr., David W." Robinson, Jr., Gregory
Hankin, and Willard W. Gatchell were on the brief, for

the United States.
The ultimate finding of navigability is a question for
this Court, and not a simple physical or historical fact.

380

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Argument for the United States.

311 U. S.

Concurrent findings do not preclude an independent
rexamination. Leovy v. United States, 177 U. S. 621,
628; The Montello, 20 Wall. 430, 442; cf., Arizona v.
California, 283 U. S. 423, 452.
The foundation of the federal jurisdiction is that the
stream be "used or suitable for use for the transportation of persons or property in interstate or foreign commerce." Federal Power Act, § 3 (8). If the stream has,
in fact been used for navigation of a consequential character, it follows without more that the river is navigable;
and, if the navigation was the transportation of persons
or property in interstate or foreign commerce, that the
river is navigable water of the United States.
If the question is whether the stream is suitable for
navigation, § 3 (8) in terms puts aside a number of
considerations which might otherwise be urged to defeat
a finding of navigability. Streams which otherwise
might not be navigable are navigable if they "have been
authorized by Congress for improvement after investigation under its authority." See Ashwander v. Tennessee Valley Authority, 297 U. S. 288, 328, 329-330.
Congress has power to define the character of the
streams which require federal control, and thus to implement its constitutional grant of power by appropriate
definition. Everard's Breweries v. Day,. 265 U. S. 545,
560; cf. Purity Extract Co. v. Lynch, 226, U. S. 192;
Ruppert v. Caffey, 251 U. S. 264. Even if the definition
went somewhat beyond interstate commerce, it could
hardly be denied that the waters described in § 3 (8)
have an existing or potential effect upon interstate commerce; their regulation therefore may be sustained as
a control of matters which otherwise would offer a substantial threat to interstate commerce. Shreveport Rate
Cases, 234 U. S. 342; Wisconsin Railroad Commission v.
Chicago, B. & Q. R. Co., 257 U. S. 563; Labor Board v.
Jones & Laughlin, 301 U. S. 1, 37-38.

U. S. v. APPALACHIAN POWER CO.
377

Argument for the United States.

The Radford-Wiley's Shoals stretch of New River is
plainly navigable; it has borne a varied and extensive
navigation.
It is unimportant that actual navigation has been
abandoned. The DesPlaines River had been out of use
for a century, "but a hundred years is a brief space in
the life of a nation," and if federal control of navigable
waters is to be abandoned "it is for Congress, not the
courts, so to declare." Economy Light Co. v. United
States, 256 U. S. 113, 124; Arizona v. California,283 U. S.
423, 453-454.
Nor is it material that the navigation was accomplished with difficulty or danger. Navigation on the
high seas is often difficult and dangerous, yet it cannotbe said that the seas are not navigable.
The irregularity of commercial trips, or the absence of
an established trade route, is irrelevant. Trips which
ogcur only when there is a sufficient commercial demand
prove navigability as completely as those which move
on -regular schedule. United States v. Utah, 283 U. S.
64.
The view that the commerce over the relevant stretch
must be an appreciable part of the river's total commerce
is unsound.
The size or character of the vessels used is immaterial.
Economy Light Co. v. United States, 256 U. S. 113, 11-7;
Water Power Co. v. Water Commissioners, 168 U. S. 349,
359; The Montello, 20 Wall. 430, 441-442.
The section is navigable also because it is susceptible
of, or suitable to, navigation. The conceded traffic on
this stretch is proof of its suitability for commercial navigation. A few trips between Allisonia and Hinton would
not show an appreciable commercial navigation, but
would demonstrate suitability for navigation.

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Argument for the United States.

311 U. S.

The conclusion that the Radford-Wiley's Shoals stretch
is navigable is required whether actual navigation or
physical characteristics be considered. The AllisoniaRadford and Wiley's Shoals-Hinton stretches also being
navigable, it follows that the New River is navigable
from Allisonia, Virginia, to Hinton, West Virginia.
Since this 111-mile stretch is interstate, it results that
the site of respondent's project is in"navigable waters
of the United States.
Respondent's project is in navigable waters of the
United States also because the Allisonia-Radford stretch,
in which it is located, was the avenue of an interstate
commerce which moved by boat to Radford and was
*there transshipped in interstate commerce by railroad.
The protection which Congress is authorized to extend
over navigable waters must be the same whether they are
channels of interstate commerce wholly by water or by
water and rail. Congress regulates interstate waterways
and interstate railroads. Nothing in the Constitution
prevents regulation of an interstate route which is part
water and part rail.
As an interstate public utility, respondent may not
complain of any prohibition against unlicensed construction of its project. Its project will send the bulk of its
electric energy into interstate commerce and will be part
of an extensive interstate electric system, interconnected
with other systems. Therefore, it is subject to the commerce powers of Congress, without regard to the federal
control of tributary streams. Public Utilities Commission v. Attleboro Steam & Elec. Co., 273 U. S.83, 86;
Utah Power & L. Co. v. Pfost, 286 U. S.165, 182; Electric
Bond Co. v. Commission, 303 U. S.419, 432-433. And,
since Congress is authorized to regulate the interstate
transmission of electricity, it has full power to license
its generation for purposes of interstate sale.

U. S. v. APPALACHIAN POWER CO.
377

Argument for the United States.

Another reason -for federal control of respondent's
project, whatever the navigability of New River at its
site, is that the waters of New River are in interstate
movement and concern West Virginia and Ohio as fully
as Virginia. The federal commerce power extends to
the interstate movement of waters, since it applies to
the interstate movement of stolen automobiles, Brooks
v. United States, 267 U. S. 432; impure foods, Hipolite
Egg Co. v. United States, 220 U. S. 45; kidnapped persons, Gooch v. United States, 297 U. S. 124; convictmade goods, Kentucky Whip & Collar Co. v. Illinois
Central R. Co., 299 U. S. 334; and women transported
for immoral purposes, Caminetti v. United States, 242
U. S. 470.
The license provisions, designed to implement the recapture clause, are valid. Whether respondent's project
is located in navigable or in non-navigable waters, the
United States has power to forbid its construction, and
it therefore has full power to condition its permission
with regulatory provisions designed to serve public ends,
whether or not the conditions are directly related to
navigation as such. See Green Bay Canal Co. v. Patten
Paper Co., 172 U. S. 58, 80.
The Federal Power Act is a valid exercise of the powers granted to Congress to regulate interstate commerce,
and it therefore does not violate the Tenth Amendment.
The development and control of the water resources
of the country has long been recognized as a national
problem. Rivers flow past or along state boundaries;
their navigability in one State often depends upon upstream conditions in another Statd. If floods in Pennsylvania and Ohio are to be reduced, the tributaries in
West Virginia and Virginia must be controlled. If
downstream lands in arid regions are to be irrigated, the

384

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Argument for the United States

311 U. S.

water appropriations in upstream states must be controlled. If the development of hydroelectric energy is to
be accomplished without injury to these interstate concerns, the State or States in which the dam' chances to
be built cannot have the sole voice in its control.
The Government's power to build the project or to
take it by eminent domain is conceded. There is no invasion of the rights of the States if it elects instead to
secure an. option to take over the project 50 years
hence.
It is unnecessary now to consider the validity of the
recapture provision. Respondent will have an adequate
remedy if its constitutional rights should ever in fact be
invaded.
Nevertheless, the recapture provision is a valid condition to the license. Since there is power to prohibit
construction or operation, there is power to grant a franchise or a license for a limited period. Gibbons v. Ogden,
9 Wheat. 1. At the end of the license period, the structure can no longer be maintained or operated. It then
can have no more than a junk value. Cf. Roberts v.
New York City, 295 U. S.264, 284-285. The net investment contemplated by the Act is far in excess of the
junk value of the plant. And there can be no claim for
reimbursement for water power rights, the development
of which the United States can and has forbidden. Cf.
United States v. Chandler-Dunbar Water Power Co.,
229 U. S.53.
There is no confiscation. The recapture provisions
are simply the price which respondent must pay to obtain a privilege otherwise denied it. If the contract is
harsh, respondent has the simple expedient of not constructing the project. The power of municipalities to
condition the terms of their franchises is analogous.
Southern Iowa Electric Co. v. Chariton, 255 U. S. 539,

U. S. v. APPALACHIAN POWER CO.
377

Argument for the United States.

542; Paducah v. Paducah Ry. Co., 261 U. S. 267, 273;
Georgia Ry. Co. v. Decatur, 262 U. S. 432, 438-439;
Public Service Co. v. St. Cloud, 265 U. S. 352, 355-356;
Fox River Co. v. Railroad Commission, 274 U. S. 651,
657.
Even if Congress were without power to forbid construction of the dam or operation of the hydroelectric
plant, it may nevertheless forbid the interstate movement of electric energy from respondent's generators.To obtain this privilege, respondent as an interstate public utility must accept a license from the Federal Power
Commission, just as an interstate railroad, motor carrier, or vessel must obtain a license or a certificate of
public convenience and necessity from the appropriate
federal authority. The recapture provision is an appropriate contractual price to pay for receipt of that
privilege.
Respondent cannot challenge the amortization reserve
requirement if it is built up out of the excess of its
income over a reasonable rate of return. Dayton-Goose
Creek Ry. Co. v. United States, 263 U. S. 456. Its attack,
then, must be directed at the requirement that the reasonable rate of return be referred to the net investment
value. The Government has urged that the equivalent
"prudent investment" basis of valuation is constitutional.
Here Congress has specifically provided for this method
of valuation, ' and the arguments have augmented
strength from that congressional determination.
The recapture provision does not deny just compensation because it does not provide payment for any increase in property values during the period of the license.
If one of the obligations of a public utility is to devote
its property to the public use for a fair return upon its
net investment, then it is subject to public expropriation upon the same basis. If there is no confiscation
276055o.41-25

1386

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Argument for Respondent.

311 U. S.

from year%to year, there can be none when the project
is taken over at the end of the license period. Certainly
this is the.result when respondent, with knowledge of
the provAions of § 14, undertakes the construction of its
project.
Mr. Raymond T. Jackson, with whom Messrs. A. Henry
Mosle, Creswell M. Micou, FraserM. Horn, Wendell W.
Forbes, M. W. Belcher, Jr., and John L. Abbot were on
the brief, for respondent.
Findings of fact which are concurred.in by two lower
.courts will be accepted here if supported by substantial
evidence. Alabama Power Co. v. Ickes, 302'U. IS. 464,
477. The rule applies to a finding that a stream is not
navigable in fact in interstate commerce. Brewer-Elliott
Oil & Gas 'Co. v. United States, 260 U. S. 77. And
there is no distinction between findings of basic or evidentiary facts and findings of ultimate facts. United
States v. O'Donnell, 303 U. S. 501; Texas & N. 0. R. Co.
v. Railway Clerks, 281 U. S.548; Pick Mfg. C- v. General Motors Co., 299 U. S. 3, 4; United States v. Commercial Credit Co., 286 U. S. 63; United States v.
Chemical Foundation, 272 U. S. 1; Baker v. Schofield,
243 U.-S. 114.
The argument that petitioner merely. "differs" with the
lower courts on the "legal question" of the "weight and
relevance" of the evidence is disingenuous. No question
of the admission or rejection of evidence (as a matter
of relevancy or otherwise) is presented by petitioner;
and disagreement with the "weight" accorded Various
selected items of evidence by the courts below presents
no issue of law for this Court.
Navigability in the federal sense is a question of constitutional fact. Crowell v. Benson, 285 U., S. 22, 55;
Arizona v. California,283 U. S. 423, 452.' Neither Congressional appropriations for improvements, nor other

U. S. v. APPALACHIAN POWER CO.
377

Argument for Respondent.

federal legislation or acts of federal officers or agencies
can establish navigability of a river in interstate commerce. The question is always one of fact to be determined by the courts. Oklahoma v. Texas, 258 U. S. 574,
585, 590-591. Indeed, abandonment of a federal attempt
to make a stream navigable creates a presumption of
nonnavigability. Oklahoma v. Texas, supra, 590.
Navigable watiers of the United States are waters
which are navigable in fact and which, by. themselves or
by uniting with other waters (navigable in fact), form a
continuous highway over which commerce is or may be
conducted among the States or with foreign countries
in -the customary modes in which commerce is conducted
by water. The Daniel Bali, 10 Wall. 557; The Montello,
20 Wall. 430; United States v. Oregon, 295 U. S. 1, 23.
Navigability in fact must exist under "natural and
ordinary conditions." United States v. Oregon, supra,
23; United States v. Cress, 243 U. S. 316, 321, 325, 326;
United States v. Holt State Bank, 270 U. S. 56. Exceptional use, or susceptibility of use, in times of temporary
high water or under other abnormal conditions, is insufficient. Oklahoma v. Texas, supra, 587; United States v.
Rio Grande D. & I. Co., 174 U. S. 690, 699. To be navigablb in fact, a water must have a "capacity for general
and common usefulness for purposes of trade and commerce." United States v. Oregon, supra, 23. The Montello, 20 Wall. 430, 442-3; Donnelly v. United States,
228 U. S. 243, 262. It must be used or susceptible of use
for "commerce of a substantial and permanent character." Leovy v. United States, 177 U. S.621, 632; United
States v. Doughton, 62 F. 2d 936, 938. "A theoretical
or potential navigability or one that is temporary, precarious and unprofitable, is not sufficient." Harrison v.
Fite, 148 F. 781, 784; United States v. Doughton,
supra, 939. Where "a stream has never been impressed
with the character of navigability by past use in com-

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Argument for Respondent.

311 U. S.

merce, ...
commerce actually in esse or at least..
in posse is essential to navigability," Gulf & I. Ry. Co. v.
Davis, 26 F. 2d 930, 933, aff'd 31 F. 2d 109, cited with
approval in United States v. Doughton, supra. Whether
practical capacity for carrying useful, substantial and
permanent commerce exists is a question of fact. United
States v. Utah, 283 U. S. 64, 87; Crowell v. Benson, 285
U. S. 22, 55.
The physical characteristics alone establish that New
River in its natural and ordinary condition was not navi-gable in interstate commerce anywhere in its course.
Aside from the complete absence of early use, petitioner failed to establish practical use, or susceptibility
for practical use, in interstate commerce. The limited
federal work did not change its non-navigable character.
The water power resources of streams, either navigable
or non-navigable, are not the "heritage" of the Federal
Government, but are the property of the several States,
except so far as granted to their citizens. The United
States has no title or property right in navigable streams,
their waters, their water power or the lands over which
they flow; and the property rights of riparian owners,
on both navigable and non-navigable streams, are created by and flow exclusively from state sovereignty.
Port of Seattle v. Oregon & W. R. Co., 255 U. S. 56, 63;
United States v. Cress, 243 U. S. 316; Borax Consolidated,
Ltd. v. Los Angeles, 296 U. S. 10; Shively v. Bowlby,
-152 U. S. 1.
The right or authority of the United States in relation
to navigable waters is limited to control for the purposes
of navigation. Port of Seattle v. Oregon & W. R. Co.,
supra, 63; United States v. Oregon, 295 U. S. 1, 14;
Kansas -. Colorado, 206 U. S. 46. Any legislation os:
tensibly for the control of navigable waters which has
no real or substantial relation to their control for purposes of navigation is unconstitutional and void. United

U. S. v. APPALACHIAN POWER CO.
377

Argument for Respondent.

States v. River Rouge Co., 269 U. S. 411, 419; Wisconsin
v. Illinois, 278 U. S.367, 415.
So long as the States do not substantially impair navigable capacity of federal navigable waters, the States
may authorize or command such alteration in natural
flow of their streams as they deem in their best interests.
Kansas v. Colorado, 206 U. S.46, 94; United States v.
Rio Grande Irrigation Co., 174 U. S. 690, 703; Head
v. Amoskeag Co., 113 U. S. 9; Holyok Co. v. Lyman,
15 Wall. 500; Otis Co. v. Ludlow Co., 201 U. S. 140,
152; Connecticut v. Massachusetts, 282 U. S.660, 670;
California Power Co. v. Cement Co., 295 U. S. 142,
163-4.
The United States has no authority under the commerce clause or otherwise to construct or acquire a power
project or to develop the waterpower resources of either.
navigable or non-navigable streams; and it may not const'tutionally create water power other than that which
is incidentally and necessarily produced by works constructed for some constitutional purpose, and those
works must be reasonably appropriate for, and have a
real and. substantial relation to, the performance of the
constitutional function which in the premises is limited
to the creation or improvement of navigability. Ashwander v. Tennessee Valley Authority, 297 U. S. 288,
340; Kaukauna Co. v. Green Bay Co., 142 U. S.254, 273;
United States v. Chandler-DunbarCo., 229 U. S.53, 73;
Alabama Power Co. v. Gulf Power Co., 283 F. 606, 613;
Missouri v. Union E. L. & P. Co., .42 F. 2d 692, 695.
This limitation upon petitioner's constitutional authority is unaffected by considerations of "economic feasibility" and can not be escaped by designating a statutory
scheme as a "multiple purpose project." Petitioner may
not develop water power merely for profit, or as a primary purpose, or as a separate and independent objective, merely because it concurrently authorizes some con-

.390

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Argument for Respondent.

311 U. S.

stitutional structure which does not necessarily or incid'ntally create the'water power.
"The-9ervitude in favor of navigation, to which riparian
lands on navigable streams are subject, is a natural servitude implicit in the location of the property and limited
to the stream in its natural state. United States v. Cress,
243 U. S. 316, 321, 325; Pumpelly v. Green Bay Co., 13
Wall. 166; United States v: Lynah, 188 U. S. 445; Packer
v. Bird, 137 U. S. 661, 667; United States v. Rio Grande
IrrigationCo., 174 U. S. 690, 698; Leovy v. United States,
177 U. S. 621, 631. Whenever that servitude is exceeded
by any action of-the Federal Government in the improvement of a navigable water or the creation of an artificial
federal waterway, it takes property for which it must
make compensation. United,,States v. Cress, supra, 326;
United States v. Lynah, supra; Monongahela Navigation
Co. v. United States, 148 U. S. 312, 336; United States v.
River Rouge Co., 269 U. S. 411, 419; Wisconsin v. Illinois, 278 U. S. 367, 415, 418.
The implied authority -over interstate navigable
streams arises solely from the fact that they are natural
highways of interstate commerce. It does not derive%
from the fact that they are water but from the fact that
they are natural instrumentalities of interstate commerce. The result is that the Federal Government may
regulate, and therefore require a license for,. the -placing
of structures in such highways so long as such regulation
has a real and substantial relation to the protection of
navigation oi navigable capacity and so long as it does
not attempt to make the exercise of the licensing power
the vehicle of. extending federal authority into a field
closed to the Federal Government by the Constitution.
United States v. Butler, 297 U. S. 1; Linder v. United
States, t8 U. S. 5, 17; Employers' Liability Cases, 207
U. S. 463, 502; Frost Trucking Co. v. Railroad Commission, 271 U. S. 583. Within those limitations, it may

U. S. v. APPALACHIAN POWER CO.
377

Argument for Respondent.

make the erection or maintenance of a structure in a
navigable stream without a federal license ipso facto
unlawful. Greenleaf Lumber Co. v. Garrison,237 U. S.
251.
Neither construction nor operation of respondent's
project is interstate commerce. Utah Power Co. v. Pfost,
286 U. S. 165, 179-182; South Carolina Power Co. v.
Tax Commission, 52 F. 2d 515, 524; aff'd 286 U. S. 525.
Construction of respondent's project without a federal
license may not be forbidden merely because some part of
the electricity which it generates will move in interstate
commerce. Utah Power Co. v. Pfost, supra; Kidd v.
Pearson,128 U. S. 1; Carter v. Carter Coal Co., 298 U. S.
238; Schechter Corp. v. United States, 295 U. S. 495. In
Part II of the Power Act, Congress expressly disclaimed
any intention to assert such authority.
Petitioner. asserts that it may prohibit construction of
respondent's project because the natural flow of all
waters from the spring houses to the sea is interstate
commerce. This theory would destroy the constitutional
distinction between navigable and. non-navigable waters
and between federal and state waters, and would transfer to the Federal Government control over, and virtual
ownership of, practically all of the waters of the States.
None of the conditions of the tendered license has any
relation to the protection of navigable capacity. Some
of them require a licensee to devote its property to public
use without compensation, and they further attempt to
transfer to petitioner the full police power ofi the State.
The "capture clause" invades the reserved right of the
States and their people, and takes private property without due process of law.
Petitioner has no constitutional authority to take over
and.operate respondent's project. The taking of a citizen's property for a purpose for which t he is no constitutional authority to condemn, is a' grogs invasion of his

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Argument for Respondent.

311 U. S.

rights, no matter what compensation is paid. Thus also
may be destroyed the authority of the States to regulate
the development of their own resources and the rights of
their people to utilize such resources under state law in
conformity with state policy.
The "capture" clause is confiscatory. It requires a
licensee to agree that petitioner may "take over" the
project upon payment to the licensee of its "net investment" in the project, or its fair value at the time of
taking, whichever is the less. Both the "net investment"
and the "fair value" prescribed by the Act not ' only
exclude "going value," but also any value for water
rights or lands in excess of "the actual reasonable cost
thereof at the time of acquisition" (no matter when
acquired, which may have been years before the issuaiyce of the license) so that petitioner will "take" any
increase in the value of lands or water rights and the
licensee will bear the loss of any decrease in their value.
If severe inflation should come, petitioner might "take
over" respondent's property upon paying merely the
number of dollars (greatly reduced in purchasing power)
which had not been eliminated from the original investment by the statutory definitions of "net investment"
and "fair value," and thereby might acquire such property for an insignificant fraction of its reproduction value,
of its real worth or of the original investment.
The development of water resources is no more a "national problem" than the development of all other economic resources of the States. The Constitution grants
no authority to regulate "national problems." Kansas v.
Colorado, 206 U. S. 46; Carter v. Carter Coal Co., 298
U. S. 238, 291-292; United States v. Butler, 297 U. S. 1.
Helvering v. Davis, 301 U. S. 619, dealing with the power
to spend (but not to regulate) for the general welfare,
is inapposite.

U. S. v. APPALACHIAN POWER CO.
377

Argument for Respondent.

The fact that any tract of land in the State might be
acquired for some constitutional federal purpose and
thereby be removed from the state tax roll, does not sustain the conclusion that petitioner might compel any. or
all land owners in the State to turn over their property
for federal use in commercial ventures not within petitioner's constitutional authority, and that this would not
be an invasion of the rights of the State or of her
people.
Even on a navigable stream, the right to develop water
power is in the riparian owner. Petitioner may regulate
the right only in so far as necessary to protect navigation
or navigable capacity. Port of Seattle v. Oregon & W. R.
Co., 255 U. S. 56; Pike Rapids Power Co. v. Railroad, 99
F. 2d 902, 908, cert. den., 305 U. S. 660.
Petitioner may not convert the project to its own use
without compensation on the theory that it could have
elected to abate it as a public nuisance. Monongahela
Navigation Co. v. United States, 148 U. S. 312; United
States v. Chandler-DunbarCo., 229 U. S. 53.
Municipal franchises are not analogous. No one is
compelled to accept a municipal franchise to use its
streets on penalty of being barred from use of his own
property. Moreover; municipalities in such cases exercise full proprietary rights in their streets, police power
and the authority to engage in business.
Fox River Co. v. Commission, 274 U. S. 651, is inapposite. A State, unlike the Federal Government, has the
authority to engage in the electric power business, and
it may establish such law of property riparian and other,
as it chooses, so long as it does not confiscate vested
rights.
Petitioner asserts that the right to engage in interstate commerce is a privilege which petitioner may grant,
deny or barter upon such terms as it may choose-includ-

1 394

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Argument for Virginia.

311 U. S.

ing the "taking over"' of the property of a citizen as a
condition of the grant. This is totalitarianism run riot.
"Net investment" under the Power Act would be confiscatory even if "prudent investment" were regarded as
a constitutional basis for rate making or for compensation in condemnation. But that basis has been consistently rejected by this Court. Smyth v. Ames, 169 U. S.
466; Driscoll v. Edison Co., 307 U. S. 104. Moreover,
even on petitioner's erroneous hypothesis, it would hardly
follow that a utility's property could be taken for less
than fair value. The decisions of this Court are to the
contrary.
By special leave of Court, Mr. Abram P. Staples,
Attorney General, filed a brief and participated in the
oral argument (see 309 U. S. 636) on behalf of the State
of Virginia, as amicus curiae.
Virginia and the United States each enjoys in this
court an equal status, and there is no presumption that
the exercise by either of a power claimed by the other is
constitutional or proper.
Even if New River were navigable in interstate commerce a half century or more ago, such fact alone would
not confer perpetual jurisdiction on the Federal Government to regulate interstate navigation in the stream.
There is no such navigation now, and no reasonable possibility that there ever will be any, to regulate.
Distinguishing Economy Light & Power Co. v. United
States, 256 U. S. 113.
The federal power to protect navigable waters in interstate navigable streams is itself implied from the power
to regulate .interstate commerce, and it cannot"be made
the basis of inferring additional regulatory power which
has no relation to regulation of interstate commerce.
Regulation of the manufacture of electric energy in
the manner provided for by the Act is not a regulation

U. S. v. APPALACHIAN POWER CO.
377

395

Argument for Virginia.

of interstate commerce, and the exercise of any such
power by the Federal Government, over the protest of
the State in which the plant is located; would destroy our
dual system of government.
. Federal jurisdiction to control and regulate, not only
the construction of a waterpower project affecting interstate navigation in so far as it affects stream flow (which
Virginia concedes), but all other details of the project,
even though having no possible relation to navigation,
cannot be predicated on the circumstance that every.
plant which sends its products into interstate commerce
is a business "affecting interstate commerce.". There is
no limit to the federal commerce power if it extends to
every act affecting interstate commerce.
The power to prevent the construction does not imply
the further power to embrace in a license or permit any
and every regulatory provision whiph the Federal Government may desire, even though without relation to
stream flow or to the protection of navigation'o'r navigable waters. The Federal Government's jurisdiction
and powers over navigable waters are restricted to the
regulation of navigation and the protection of such
waters from harmful obstructions; and, while the stream
is subject to a servitude iii favor of navigation and ir~terstate commerce, the States themselves, possessf all other
governmental jurisdiction. James v. Dravo Contracting
Co., 302 U. S. 134, 140.
The Federal Government possesses po power to prohibit
in navigable waters of the, United States structures
which are not hurtful oI harmful to the navigable capacity of such waters, or to navigation therein. The only
power that it has over such harmless structures is that
of deciding whether they are in fact harmless. And it
would be an obvious abuse of the power to decide this
question,, to exact, as a condition to a favorable decision,

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Argument for Virginia.

311 U.S.

the additional power to regulate matters in no way
related to navigation or the protection of such. waters.
The property rights and governmental control over
streams, except in so far as such control relates to navigation and the protection of navigable waters, reside in
the States, and these property rights can be converted
into so-called "national resources" only by grant by the
States or by constitutional amendment.
The Power Act contains nothing about flood control,
and the regulatory powers conferred on the Commission,
except in so far as they relate to the control of stream
flow for the protection of navigation, have no more relation to flood control than they do to navigation.
Although the Federal Government could itself construct
a project in aid of navigation and flood control, it would
have to acquire the property rights involved and erect
the structure at its own expense. This is essentially
different from undertaking to dedicate, and in effect to
confiscate, the properties of the States, without their consent, for such a purpose.
The provisions of the Power Act which authorize the
Federal Government to take over the property of Virginia, consisting of the bed of the river and the usufruct
of the stream flow, without compensation to the State,
violate Art. 4, § 3, Cl. 2, as well as the fifth amendment,
of the Constitution.
Even if the Federal Government had the power to
regulate the manufacture of electrical energy, the regulation'of the construction and operation of hydroelectric
generating plants, where there is no such regulation of
plants operated by steam, is arbitrary and would result
in needlessly confusing the efforts of Virginia to regulate
the industry as a whole.
Virginia is entitled to a decision now on the constitutionality of the capture clause, as well as'the other
license provisions of the Act, so as to enable her to

U. S. v. APPALACHIAN POWER CO.
377

Amici Curiae.

proceed with the development 'of her many valua.i. ,
streams.
By leave of Court, briefs of amici curiae were filed on
behalf of the States of Kentucky, by Hubert Meredith,
Attorney General, and M. B. Holifield, Assistant Attorney General; West Virginia, by Clarence W. Meadows,
Attorney General; Wisconsin, by John E. Martin, Attorney General, Newell S. Boardman, Assistant Attorney
General, and Mr. Adolph Kanneberg.
A joint brief was filed:, fdr Alabama, by Thomas S. Lawson, Attorney General; Arizona, by Joe Conway, Attorney General; California, by Earl Warren, Attorney General; Colorado, by Byron G. Rogers, Attorney General;Connecticut, by Francis A. Pallotti, Attorney General;
Delaware, by James R. Morford, Attorney General; Florida, by George Couper Gibbs, Attorney General; Idaho,
by J. W. Taylor, Attorney General; Illinois, by John E.
Cassidy, Attorney General; Iowa, by John M. Rankin,
Attorney General; Kansas, by Jay S. Parker, Attorney
General; Kentucky, by Huibert Meredith, Attorney General, and M. B. Holifield, Assistant 'Attorney General;
Louisiana, by Eugene Stanley, Attorney General; Maine,
by Franz E. Burkett, Attorney General; Maryland, by
William C. Walsh, Attorney General; Massachusetts, by
Paul A. Dever, Attorney Generali Michigan, bY Thomas
Read, Attorney General; Minnesota, by J. A. A.. Burnquist, Attorney General,; Mississippi, by Greek L. Rice,
Attorney General; Missouri, by Roy McKittrick, Attorney General; Nebraska, by Walter R. Johnson, Attorney
General; Nevada, by Gray Mashburn, Attorney General;
New Hampshire, by Thomas P. Cheney, Attorney General; New Jersey, by David T. Wilentz, Attorney General; New Mexico, by Filo M. Sedillo, Attorney General;
New York, by John J. Bennett, Jr., Attorney General,
and Henry Epstein, Solicitor General; North Carolina,
by Harrq McMullan, Attorney General; North Dakota,

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

311 U. S.

by Alvin C. Strutz, Attorney General; Ohio, by Thomas
J.- Herbert, Attorney General; Oregon, by 1. H. Van
Winkle, Attorney General; Pennsylvania, by Claude T.
Reno, Attorney General; Rhode Island, by Louis V.
Jackvony, Attorney General; South Dakota, by Leo A.
Temmey, Attorney General; Tennessee, by Roy H.
Beeler, Attoriey General; Utah, by Joseph Chez, Attorney General; Vermont, by Lawrence C. Jones, Attorney
General; Virginia, by Abram P. Staples, Attorney General; Washington, by Smith Troy, Attorney General;
and Wyoming, by Ewing T. Kerr, Attorney Generalsetting forth the position of the States in regard to the
relative powers of the States and the United States over
navigable and non-navigable waters.
MR.

JUSTICE REED

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This case involves the scope of the federal commerce
power in relation to conditions in licenses, required by
the Federal Power Commission, for the construction of
hydroelectric dams in navigable rivers of the United
States. To reach this issue requires, preliminarily, a decision as to the navigability of the New River, a watercourse flowing through Virginia and West Virginia. The
district court and the circuit court of appeals have both
held that the New River ,is not navigable, and that the
United States cannot enjoin the respondent from constructing and putting into operatoon a hydroelectric
dam situated in the river just above Radford, Virginia.
Sections 9 and 10 of the Rivers and Harbors Act of
1899 make it unlawful to construct a dam in any navigable water of the United States without the consent ofCongress.1 By the Federal Water Power Act of 1920,2
30 Stat. 1151, 33 U. S. C. §§ 401, 403.
241

Stat. 1063. The Act was amended by 49 Stat. 838 (1935),

U. S. C. Supp. V, Title 16, § 791a et 8eq., by which itbecame known
as the Federal Power Act.

U. S. v. APPALACHIAN POWER CO.
.377

Opinion of the Court.

however, Congress created a Federal Power Commission
with authority to license the construction of such'dams
upon specified conditions. Section- 23 *of that Act provided that persons intending to construct a dam in a
nonnavigable stream may file a declaration of intention
with the Commission. If after investigation the Commission finds that the interests of interstate or. foreign
commerce will not be affected, permission shall be
gTanted for the construction. Otherwise construction
cannot go forward without a license.
The Radford Dam project was initiated, by respondent's predecessor, the New River Development Company which filed its, declaration of intention With the
Federal Power Commission on June 25, 1925. The
Commission requested a report from General Harry Taylor, then Chief of Ergineers of the War Department.
He first reported thatethe river was navigable, and also
that while the water flow from the dam, if not properly
regulated, could have ah adverse effect on navigation
during low water stages in the Kanawha River (of which
the New was one of the principal tributaries), such possible 'adverse effect would not warrant refusing a license
to. construct the dam if control were maintained by the
United States. On review at the Commission's request,
however, General Taylor rendered a second report, concluding that the New River in its present condition
was not navigable and that navigation on the Kanawha
would not be adversely. affected by. the proposed power
development. On March 2, 1926, the Commission held
a hearing on the declaration; the only evidence then
submitted was General Taylor's second report..
Respondent, the Appalachian Electric Power C6mpany, took an assignment of the declaration of intention
on August 30, 1926, and several days later filed an'applV
cation for a license on the Coni-nission's suggestion that
this would expedite -matters and could be withdrawn if
it later dbvelQped that no federal- license was required.

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

311 U. S.

In October, the district engineer of the War Department
held a public hearing at Radford. On June 1, 1927, the
Commission made a finding that the New River was not
"navigable waters" within the definition in § 3 of the
Federal Water Power Act of 1920 but that (under § 23
of the Act) the project would affect the interests of
interstate and foreign commerce. On July 1, 1927, the
Commission tendered to respondent a standard form
license, which the respondent refused, in April, 1928, principally on the ground that the conditions-especially
those concerning rates, accounts and eventual acquisition-were unrelated to navigation. In February, 1930,
respondent reiterated that its project was not within the
Commission's jurisdiction, but nevertheless offered to accept a "minor-part" license I containing only such conditions as would protect the interests of the United States
in navigation. In September, 1930, Attorney General
Mitchell advised the Commission that it could properly
issue such a minor-part license; ' the question submitted
by the Commission had stated that the New River was
neither navigated nor navigable in fact. On November
25, the Commission "declined to take action on the application favorable or adverse," on the ground that a
court adjudication was desirable. After the establishment of the Commission as an independent agency,5 it
held another hearing in February, 1931; in April it denied the application for a minor-part license, directed
that the respondent be tendered a standard form license
under the Act, -and ordered it not to proceed without
such a license. A minority of the Commission then
'§ 10 (i).
'36 Op. A. G. 355.
'Originally it consisted of three cabinet officers, ex officio: the Secretaries of War, Interior, and Agriculture. By 46 Stat. 797 it was
reorganized into an independent Commission with five members. The
new Commission began to function on December 22, 1930.

U. S. v. APPALACHIAN POWER CO.
377

Opinion of the Court.

favored a finding that the New River was navigable; the
majority, however, thought that question was for the
courts and that the Commission's jurisdiction was properly based upon § 23 of the Federal Water Power Act.
On June 8, 1931, the respondent brought an action
against the Commission to remove a cloud on its title and
to restrain interference with the use of its property. This
case was dismissed for jurisdictional reasons." While it
was pending, on October 12, 1932, the Commission without notice adopted a resolution that the New River, from
the mouth .of Wilson Creek, Virginia, north, was
navigable.
The respondent began construction work on the dam
about June 1, 1934. On May 6, 1935, the United States
filed this bill for an injunction against the construction
or maintenance of the proposed dam otherwise than
under a license from the Federal Power Commission, and
in the alternative a mandatory order of removal. It alleged that the New River is navigable; that the dam
would constitute an obstruction to navigation and would
impair the navigable capacity of the navigable waters
of the United States on the New, Kanawha and Ohio
Rivers; that the Commission had found the -dam would
affect the interests of interstate or foreign commerce;
and that its construction therefore violated both the
Rivers and Harbors Act and the Federal Water Power
Act. Respondent denied these allegations, and also set
forth a number of separate defenses based on the assumption that the New River was nonnavigable. The
fortieth and forty-first paragraphs of the answer, however, set forth defenses relied on by the respondent even
if the river were held navigable. The substance of these
was (1) that the conditions of any federal license must
'Appalachian Electric Power Co. v. Smith, 67 F. 2d 451, cert. denied, 291 U. S. 674.
276055-41-26

402

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

311 U. S.

be strictly limited to the protection of the navigable capacity of the waters of the United States; and (2) that
the Commission's refusal to grant the minor-part license
containing only such conditions was unlawful, and that
any relief should be conditioned upon the Commission's
granting respondent such a license. By these defenses
respondent put in question-in the event of an adverse
holding on navigability-the validity of the conditions
of the Act carried over into the standard form license
which relate to accounts, control of operation and eventual acquisition of the project at the expiration of the
license.
After trial, in an opinion reinforced by formal findings
of fact and law, the district court decided that the New
River is not a navigable water of the United States;
that respondent's dam would not obstruct the navigable
capacity of the Kanawha or any- other navigable river,
and would not affect the interests of interstate commerce; that the Power Commission's findings on these
matters were not final but subject to the determination
of the co',.6s; 7 that the Federal Water Power Act did
not vest in the Commission authority to require a license
in a nonnavigable river; that even if the Commission
had authority to require some license for a dam in nonnavigable waters, it could not impose conditions having
no relation to thie protection of the navigable capacity
of waters of the United States; and that'Its effort to
impose upon respondent a license containing unlawful
conditions barred the United States from relief. The
district judge therefore dismissed the bill, but left it open
'In both courts below the Government unsuccessfully urged that
the findings of the Commission, if supported by substantial evidence,

were conclusive. Although it still regards this contention as correct,
the Government does not "sek to have this Court pass on it in this
case.

U. S. v. APPALACHIAN POWER CO.
377

403

Opinion of the Court.

to the Government to assert its rights if future operation
of the project interfered with the navigable capacity of
the waters of the United States. The circuit court of
appeals, with one judge dissenting, affirmed. We granted
certiorari 8
ConcurrentFindings. The district court's finding that
the New River was not navigable was concurred in by
the circuit court of appeals after a careful appraisal of
the evidence in the record." Both courts stated in detail
the circumstantial facts relating to the use of the river
and its physical characteristics, such as volume of water,
swiftness and obstructions. There is no real disagreement between the parties here concerning these physical
and historical evidentiary facts. But there are sharp
divergencies of view as to their reliability as indicia of
navigability and the weight which should be attributed
to them. The disagreement is over the ultimate conclusion upon navigability to be drawn from this uncontroverted evidence.
The respondent relies-upon this Court's statement that
"each determination as to navigability must stand on
its own facts," 10 and upon the conventional rule that
factual findings concurred in by two courts will be
accepted by this Court unless clear error is shown.11
In cases involving the navigability of water courses,
this Court, without expressly passing on the finality of
the findings, on some occasions has entered into consideration of the facts found by two courts to determine for
'309 U. S. 646.
'107 F. 2d 769, 780, 787.
United States v. Utah, 283 U. S. 64, 87.
'Brewer Oil Co. v. United States, 260 U. S. 77, 86; e. g., Alabama
Power Co. v. Ickes, 302 U. S. 464, 477; Pick Mfg. Co. v. General
Motors Corp., 299 U. S. 3;. Texas & N. 0. R. Co. v. Ry. Clerks, 281
U. S. 548, 558; United States v. O'Donnell, 303 U. S. 501, 508.

404

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

311 U. S.

itself whether the courts have correctly applied to the
facts found the proper legal tests.1 2 When we deal with
issues such as these before us, facts and their constitutional significance are too closely connected to make the
two-court rule a serviceable guide. The legal concept
of navigability embraces both public and private interests. It is not to be determined by a formula which fits
every type of stream under all circumstances and at all
times. Our past decisions have taken due account of the
changes and complexities in the circurastances of a river.
We do not purport now to lay down any single definitive
test. We draw from the prior decisions in this field and
apply them, with due regard to the dynamic nature of
the problem, to the particular circumstances presented
by the New River. To these circumstaneps certain judicial standards are to be applied for determining whether
the complex of the conditions in respect to its capacity
for use in interstate commerce render it a navigable
stream within the Constitutional requirements. Both
the standards and the ultimate conclusion involve questions of law inseparable from the particular facts to
which they are applied.
Navigability. The power of the United States over its
waters which are capable of use as interstate highways
arises from the commerce clause of the Constitution.
"The Congress shall have Po*er . . . To regulate Commerce . . . among the several States." It was held early
in our history that the power to regulate commerce
necessarily -included power over navigation." To make
its control effective the Congress may keep the "naviUnited States v. Rio Grande Irrigation Co., 174 U. S. 690, 699;
Leovy V. United States, 177 U. S. 621; Economy Light Co. v. United
States, 256 U. S. 113, 117; United States v. Holt Bank, 270 U. S.
49, 55.
Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheat. 1, 189; Leovg-v. United States, 177

U. S. 621, 632.

U. S. v. APPALACHIAN POWER CO.
377

Opinion of the Court.

gable waters of the United States" open and free and
provide by sanctions against any interference with the
country's water assets.'.4 It may legislate to forbid or
license dams in the waters; "5its power over improvements for navigation in rivers is "absolute." 16
The states possess control of the waters within their
borders, "subject to the acknowledged jurisdiction of the
United States under the Constitution in regard to commerce and the navigation of the waters of rivers." " It
is this subordinate local control that, even as to navigable
rivers, creates between the respective governments a 6ontrariety of interests relating to the regulation and protection of waters through licenses, the operation of structures and the acquisition of projects at the end of the
license term. But there is no doubt that the United
States possesses the power to control the erection of
structures in navigable waters.
The navigability of the New River is, of course, a
factual question 18 but to call it, a fact cannoft obscure the
diverse elements that enter into the application of the
legal tests as to navigability. We are dealing here with
the sovereign powers of the Union, the Nation's right
that its waterways be utilized for the interests of the
commerce of the whole country. It is obvious that the
uses to-which the streams may be put. vary from the
carriage of ocean liners to the floating out of logs; "Ithat
the density of traffic varies equally widely from the busy
"Gilman v. Philadelphia, 3 Wall. 713, 724-25; United Staes..-v.
Coombs, 12 Pet. 72, 78.
" Willson v. Black Bird Creek Marsh Co., 2 Pet. 245, 250; United
States v. Rio Grande IrrigationCo., 174 U. S. 690, 703.
United States v. River Rouge Co., 269 U. S. 411, 419.
"St. Anthony Falls Water Power Co. v. Water Commissioners, 168
U. S. 349, 366; United States v. Rio Grande Irrigation Co., 174 U. S.
690, 702:
" Arizona v. California,283 U. S. 423, 452.
19The

Montello, 20 Wall. 430, 441.

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

311 U. S.

harbors of the seacoast to the sparsely settled regions of
the Western mountains. 0 The tests as to navigability
must take these variations into consideration.
Both lower courts based their investigation primarily
upon the generally accepted definition of The Daniel
Ball. 1 In so doing they were in accord with the rulings
of this Court on the basic concept of navigability.22 Each
application of this test, however, is apt to uncover variations and r6finements which require further elaboration.
In the lower courts and here, the Government urges
that the phrase "susceptible of being used, in. their ordinary condition," in the Daniel Ball definition, should not
be construed as eliminating the possibility of determining navigability in the light of the effect of reasonable
improvements. The district court thought the argument
inapplicable. 3
United States v. Utah, 283 U. S. 64, 83.

u10 Wall. 557, 563:
Those rivers must be regarded as public navigable rivers.in
law which are navigable in fact. And they are navigable in fact
when they are used, or are susceptible of being used, in their ordinary
condition, as highways for commerce, over which trade and travel are
or may be.conducted in the customary modes of trade and travel on
water. And they constitute navigable waters of the United States
within the meaning of -the acts of Congress, in contradistinction from
the navigable waters of the States, when they form in their ordinary
condition by themselves, or by uniting with other waters, a continued
highway over which commerce -is or may be carried on with other
States or foreign countries in the customary modes in which guch
commerce is conducted by water."
United States v. Appalachian Electric Power Co., 23 F. Supp. 83,
98; same, 107 F. 2d 769, 780.
" United States v. Rio Grande Irrigation Co., 174 U. S. 690, 698;
Brewer Oil Co. v. United States, 260 U. S. 77, 86; United States v.
Holt Bank, 270 U. S. 49, 56; United States v. Utah, 283 U. S. 64, 76;
United States v. Oregon, 295 U. S. 1, 15.
" 23 F. Supp. at 99-100.

U. S. v. APPALACHIAN POWER CO.
377

Opinion of the Court.

The circuit court of appeals said:
"If this. stretch of the river was not navigable in fact
in its unimproved condition, it is not to be considered
navigable merely because it might have been made navi-"
gable by improvements which were not in fact made. Of
course if the improvements had been made the question
of fact might have been different." 2,
To appraise the evidence of navigability on the natural
condition only of the: waterway is erroneous. Its availability for navigation must also be considered' "Natural
and ordinary condition" 2 refers to volume of water, the
gradients and the regularity of the flow. A waterway,
otherwise suitable for navigation, is not barred from that
classification merely, because artificial aids must make
the highway suitable for use before' commercial navigation may be undertaken. Congress has recognized this
in § 3 of the Water Power Act by defining "navigable waters" as those "which either in their natural or
improved condition" are used or suitable for use. The
district court is quite right in saying there are obvious
limits to such improvements as affecting navigability.
These limits are necessarily a matter of degree.26 There
must be a balance between cost and need at a time when
' 107 F 2d at 786.
United States v. Oregon, 295 U. S. 1, 15.

Thus in the Rio Grande case, the record contained reports of
army engineers that improvements necessary to make the river navigable would be financially, if not physically, impracticable because of
the many millions of dollars that would be required. The supreme
court of the Territory of New Mexico observed that "the navigability
of a river does not depend upon its susceptibility of being so improved
by high engineering skill and the expenditure of vast sums of money,
but upon its natural present cunditions" (9 N. M. 292, 299; 51 P. 674,
676). This Court agreed that too much improvement was necessary for
the New Mexico stretch of the river to be considered navigable. United
States v. Rio GrandeIrrigationCo., 174 U. S. 690, 699.

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

311 U. S.

the improvement would be useful. When once found to
be navigable, a waterway remains so.2" This is no more
indefinite than a rule of navigability in fact as adopted
below based upon 'useful interstate commerce" or "general and common usefulness for purposes of trade and
commerce" if these are interpreted as barring improvements.28 Nor is it necessary that the improvements
should be actually completed or even authorized. The
power of Congress over commerce is not to be hampered
because of the necessity for reasonable improvements to
make an interstate waterway available for traffic.
Of course there are difficulties in applying these views.
Improvements that may be entirely reasonable in a
thickly populated, highly developed, industrial region
may have been entirely too costly for the same region
in the days of the pioneers. The changes in engineering
practices or the coming of new industries with varying
classes of freight may affect the type of the improvement. Although navigability to fix ownership of the
river bed

29

or riparian rights "0is determined as the cases

just cited in the notes show, as of the formation of the
Union in the original states or the admission to statehood of those formed later, navigability, for the purpose
of the regulation of commerce, may later arise.8 An
analogy is found in admiralty jurisdiction,2 which may
be extended over places formerly nonnavigable 2 " There
='Economy Light Co. v. United States, 256 U. S. 113.

"See 107 F. 2d at 780.
"Shively v. Bowlby, 152 U. S. 1, 18 and 26; United States v. Utah,
283 U. S. 64, 75.
' Oklahoma v. Texas, 258 U. S. 574, 591, 594; United States v.
Oregon, 295 U. S. 1, 14.
" Cf. United States v. Rio Grande IrrigationCo., 174 U. S. 690, 699.
Art. III, § 2, cl. 1. Cf. Genesee Chief v. Fitzhugh, 12 How. 443.
" The Robert W. Parsons, 191 U. S. 17, 28; Ex parte Boyer, 109
U. S. 629; Marine Transit Co. v. Dreyfus, 284 U. S. 263, 271-72.

U. S. v. APPALACHIAN POWER CO.
377

Opinion of the Court.

has never been doubt that the navigability referred to in
the cases was navigability despite the obstruction of
falls, rapids, sand bars, carries or shifting currents. 4 The
plenary federal power over commerce must be able to
develop with the needs of that commerce which is the
reason for its existence. It cannot properly be said that
the federal power over navigation is enlarged by the
improvements to the waterways. It is merely that
improvements make applicable to certain waterways the
existing power over commerce. 5 In determining the
navigable character of the New River it is proper to
consider the feasibility of interstate use after reasonable
improvements which might be made."8
Nor is it necessary for navigability that the use should
be continuous. The character of the region, its products
and the difficulties or dangers of the navigation influence
the regularity and extent of the use. Small traffic compared to the available commerce of the region is sufficient. 8 Even absence of use over long periods of years,
because of changed conditions, the coming of the railroad
or improved highways does not affect the navigability
The Montello, 20 Wall. 430, 442-43; Economy Light Co. v.
United States, 256 U. S. 113, 122; United States v. Utah, 283 U. S.
64, 86. See also Mr. Justice McLean in Spooner v. McConnell, 22
Fed. Cas. No. 13,245, at p. 944 (C. C. D. Ohio 1838).
' Illustrative of this natural growth is United States v. Cress, 243
U. S. 316, involving riparian proprietors' rights where improvements
raise the river level so that uplands are newly and permanently subjected to the servitude of public use for navigation. Compensation
was decreed for the taking with a declaration that the waterways in
question, as artificially improved, remained navigable waters of the
United States (pp. 325 and 326). Cf. Arizona v. California, 283
U. S. 423, 454.
"*Cf. Barnes v. United States, 46 Ct. Cl. 7, 28.
' United States v. Utah, 283 U. S. 64; Arizona v. California, 283
U. S. 423, 452-54.
"8United States v. Utah, 283 U. S. 64, 82.

410

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

311 U. S.

of rivers in the constitutional sense."9 It is well recognized too that the navigability may be of a substantial
part only of the waterway in question." Of course, these
evidences of nonnavigability in whole or in part are to
be appraised in totality to determine the effect of all.
With these legal tests in mind we proceed to examine the
facts to see whether the 111-mile reach of this river from
Allisonia to Hinton, across the Virginia-West Virginia
state line, has "capability of use by the public for the
purposes of transportation and commerce." 41
Physical Characteristics. New River may be said to
assume its character as such at the mouth- of Wilson
Creek near the North Carolina-Virginia line. From that
point it flows first in a northeast and then in a northwest
direction something over. 250 miles to Kanawha Falls,
West Virginia. It passes through 'Allisonia and Radford,
Virginia, and then Hinton, West Virginia. It is joined'
by many tributaries, the largest of which is the Gauley.
At Kanawha Falls it changes its name to the Kanawha, a
navigable river of commercial iinportance which joins the
Ohio 97 miles below. The whole territory traversed by
the New is broken and mountainous. Between Hinton
and Kanawha Falls, the river is swift and the gorge precipitous. Above Hinton the river flows more slowly,
through a broader valley and between less rugged mountains. The same may be said of the area above Radford.
Throughout the river there is an abundance of water,
and the respondent hardly denies that the flowage suffices
if other conditions make the New available for navigation.4 2
SAshwander v. Tennessee Valley Authority, 297 U. S. 288, 329.
'Economy Light Co. v. United States, 256 U. S. 113, 124; Arizona
v. California,283 U. S. 423, 453.
"Cf. The Montello, 20 Wall. 430, 441.
"See 23 F. Supp. at 91.

U. S. v. APPALACHIAN POWER CO.
377

Opinion of the Court.

It will conserve discussion to appraise the navigability
of the 111-mile stretch between Allisonia and Hinton in
three sections which together form the whole reach between these points: the 28 miles from Allisonia to Radford, which the United States improved between 1876
and 1883; the 59-mile stretch from Radford to Wiley's
Falls, Virginia, never improved except at Wiley's Falls
itself; and the 24 miles from Wiley's Falls across the state
line to Hinton, West Virginia, which, like the upper section, the Government improved during 1876-1883. We
shall examine chiefly the disputed middle section, for as
to the others the evidence of .navigability is much
stronger and that of obstructions much weaker. For
instance, the report of the Chief of Engineers for 1873
refers to certain keelboats operating on the river, and
his report for 1883 shows that 17 keelboats operated
above Hinton. Keelboats were flat-bottomed bateaux,
50 to 70 feet long, with a draft of two feet and a carrying capacity varying up to 10 or 12 tons. They were used
commercially to transport lumber, tobacco and other
products of the region. The evidence is clear that these
bateaux plied from Hinton up to near Glen Lyn with
fair regularity- through the first decade of this centuryand well into the second; timber and lumber in large
quantities apparently were boated and rafted down to
Hinton from various up-river points below Glen Lyn
until about the beginning of the World War.43 Around
and above Radford. the Chief of Engineers reported two
keelboats operating in 1881, eight in 1882, and eight together with a small steamboat in 1883. The corroborating testimony of many witnesses shows that in the 80s
43

This is shown by the testimony of W.:-s, Peters, Starbuck, Lane,
E. M. Smith, Farley, Kenley, Lucas, E. W. Lilly, W. L. Burks, Z. V.
Burks, Johnson, Wauhop, Stover, R. Calloway, J. C. Martin, Tomkies, and B. C. Lilly..

412

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

311 U. S.

these boats carried iron ore and pig iron, as well as
produce and merchandise, between Allisonia and New
River Bridge, which is a little above Radford." At the
Hinton and New River Bridge railroad stations, freight
brought in by the keelboats or other river craft was transshipped, and, freight arriving by rail was forwarded by
river.
We come then to a consideration of the crucial stretch
from Radfdrd to below Wiley's Falls where junction is
made with the interstate reach from Wiley's Falls to Hinton. In the report of the Secretary of War for 1872
appears Hutton's useful mile-by-mile survey of the river
from above Allisonia to the mouth of the Gretnbrier,
which is nearly down to Hinton. It was made as a basis
for plans to improve the New by federal appropriation."
This survey designates the Radford-Wiley's Falls stretch
as "mile 46" to "mile 104" inclusive. Eighteen of these
miles have grades falling, gradually, or abruptly, more
than four feet in the mile. Several of these where there
are rapids or falls show drops of eight, nine and in one
instance 11
feet. The higher footage represents, of
course,-miles in which small falls are found. Between
these more precipitous sections are many miles of what
is called "gocd water," with a gradual fall of 4 feet or less.
Even in miles where the declivity is rapid, the fall is
apparenily laigely, in sections containing obstructions.
"E. g., the testimony of R. L. Howard, Graham, J. Breeding,
Owen, Z.: Farmer,. H. B: Allison, J. H. Howard, Peterson, Moore,
Likens, Roop, and ingles.
In 1885,the assistant engineer reported that "from inquiries it is
thought that the channel-way made in former years [on the improved
sections] still keeps open, and bateaux are in constant use on them,
iron having been shipped to New Riier bridge up to the time of the
suspension of the furnaces by the prevailing hard times" (Report of
the Chief of Engineers for 1886).
"17 Stat. 376.

U. S. v. APPALACHIAN POWER CO.
377

Opinion of the' Court:

For instance, the 51st mile reads "Rapid, over bowlders
and gravel, 1,500 feet long; fall, 81/ feet," and the 100th

mile "Neilley's Falls and rapids; whole fall, 11 feet, 6
of it nearly vertical. A sluice 500 feet long, along left
bank, will pass them, with 50 feet of rock excavation
and 450 feet of bowlders and gravel." Quite frequently
where the fall is moderate, other obstructions appear, as
the 78th mile "Rapids, 500 feet long, over bowlders and
gravel; fall, 2 feet." Large isolated rocks are scattered
abundantly throughout the stretch. A geologist testifying for the respondent tells strikingly how the faulting
and folding of the surface at this stretch has resulted in
the tilting of the rock strata to a steep degree. "In its
flow, the water of New River moves along and up the
slopes of successive rock strata or ledges . . . this results
in a river with numerous ledges of rock strata, some
partly submerged, some exposed, which are substantially
vertical or standing on end, and which extend across the
stream at right angles to the line of flow . . . The slope
of the strata is downward in an upstream direction rather
than in a downstream direction," contrary to the usual
condition. No other data point to material variations
from these descriptions.
Use of the River from Radford to Wiley's Falls. Navigation on the Radford-Wiley's Falls stretch was not large.
Undoubtedly the difficulties restricted it and with the
coming of the Norfolk & Western and the Chesapeake &
Ohio railroads in the 80s, sumr-joe ag there had been
practically ceased, except for smai1n ublic ferries going
from one bank to the other. 8 Wed. authenticated instances of boating along this stret ch, however, exist. In
1819 a survey was made by Moore and Briggs, whom the
"At different times before 1935 ferries crossed the river at no less
than ten points along the Radford-Wiley's Falls stretch. In 1935
there were five such public ferries.

414

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of' the Court.

311 U. S.

General Assembly of Virginia had sent to report on the
availability of the New for improvement. Beginning at
the mouth of the Greenbrier they boated up to the mouth
of Sinking Creek, some 55 miles, noting the characteristics of the river as they went. They reported that they
ascended all falls with their boat, "though, in two or three
instances, with considerable difficulty, after taking out
our baggage, stores, &c." " Sinking Creek is about half
way up this stretch, of river we are considering.
In 1861 the Virginia General Assembly appropriated
$30,000 to improve the New River to accommodate transportation of military stores by bateaux from Central
depot [Radford] to the mouth of the Greenbrier. 8
While there is no direct proof that this particular appropriation was spent, reports of the War Department engineers make it clear that the- Confederate government
effected some improvements on the river." These facts
buttress the testimony of several witnesses, one a Confederate veteran, that during the Civil War keelbottom
boats brought' supplies from Radford, to a commissary at
"Report of Moore and Briggs. Fourth and Fifth Annual Reports
of the Board of Public Works to the General Assembly of Virginia
(1819). Report of the Principal Engineer of the Board of Public

Works.
While Marshall was Chief Justice he was head of a Virginia commission which had surveyed part of the New River by boat in 1812,
but only going downstream from the mouth of the Greenbrier. Report of the Commissioners, printed 1816.
48 Virginia Acts of 1861-62, c. 50.
"But little has been done in the way of improving the river since
the time of Moore and Briggs, though an effort is said to have been
made in that direction by the confederate government in the late war"
(Report of Chief of Engineers for 1873).

"Experience, as developed

by the universal fate of the work of the late Confe crate States on
this river (though this seems to have been injudiciously located and
poorly built), is adverse to anything like rigid structures . . ." (Report of Chief of Engineers for 1879).

U. S. v. APPALACHIAN POWER CO.
377

Opinion of the Court.

the Narrows (about 7 miles above Glen Lyn), and then
continued further downstream."' This testimony the
circuit court of-appeals accepted as true. 1
From the end of the Civil War to the coming of the
railroads, the evidence of elderly residents familiar'with
events along the banks of the river between Radford.
and Wiley's Falls leaves no doubt that at least sporadic
transportation took place in and throughout this stretch.
By this it is not meant that the keelboats above Radford and above Hinton, which operated frequently in the
improved sections, made regular through trips from Allisonia past Radford to Hinton. Through navigation,
however, did occur, as is shown by the testimony of a
number of witnesses and recognized by the lower courts.2
There are also numerous references to isolated bits of
boating along parts of the Radford-Wiley's Falls xeach.5"
And when the Government stopped improvement in
1883, it ordered the boats it was using in the lead mines'
division above Allisonia, and' at various places downstream, to be brought down the full stretch of the river
to Hinton for.sale. Under the supervision of the assistant tngineer, a derrick boat, four bateaux, and numerous
flat boats, skiffs and canoes-more than twenty vessels
in all-were taken down to Hinton, a number of them
from points above Radford. This was accomplished, as
the Chief of Engineers' report shows, despite difficulties
Testimony of Snyder, Snidow, Skeen.
a'107 F. 2d at 783.
"See 23 F. Supp. at 93; 107 F. 2d at 786.
Testimony of bateaux going from Radford, or above, to Hinton, is
given by Flannagan, Linkous, Collins, Webb, Snyder.
A boat, 50 feet by 8, with a gasoline motor, went from Radford to
Hinton in 1901, though after the river had been materially raised by

a rain.
E. g., testimony of Coleman, Howard, Webb, Snyder, Price, Martin,
Anderson

416

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

311 U. S.

occasioned by "weather, low water, and scarcity of
labor." '
In addition to the testimony of use in the days before
railways and good roads, there was a demonstration of
the possibility of navigation by a government survey
boat with an outboard motor, 16 feet long, five feet wide,
drawing 21 to 3 feet, loaded with a crew of five and its
survey equipment. This boat made a round trip from
the Narrows, just above Wiley's Falls, to Allisonia, a
distance of 72 miles one way, in July, 1936, when the
river stage was normal summer low water. While the
crew was out of the boat and used poles a number of
times, there were no carries or portages. Going upstream
it was not necessary to pull or push the boat more than
a mile and a quarter and not more than a few hundred
feet on the return trip.
Use of a stream long abandoned by water commerce is
difficult to prove by abundant evidence. Fourteen authenticated instances of use in a century and a half by
explorers and trappers, coupled with general historical
references to the river as a water route for the early fur
traders and their supplies in pirogues and Durham or
flat-bottomed craft similar to the keelboats of the New,
sufficed upon that phase in the case of the DesPlaines.5 5
Nor is lack of commercial traffic a. bar to a conclusion of
navigability where personal or private use by boats demonstrates the availability of the stream for the simpler
types of commercial navigation."
The evidence of actual use of the Radford-Wiley's
Falls section for commerce and for private convenience,
Report of the Chief of Engineers for. 1883. See also testim6ny of
Owen, Crowell, Dickinson.
"Economy Light Co. v. United States, 256 F. 792, 797-98; affirmed
256 U. S. 113.
"United States v. Utah, 283 U. S. 64, 82.

U. S. v. APPALACHIAN POWER CO.
377

Opinion of the Court.

when taken in connection with its physical condition,
makes it quite plain that by reasonable improvement the
reach would be navigable for the type of boats employed
on the less obstructed sections. Indeed the evidence detailed above is strikingly similar to that relied upon by
this Court in United,States v. Utah " to establish the
navigability of the Colorado from Cataract Canyon to
the Utah-Arizona boundary line. There had been seventeen through trips over a period of sixty years from the
original exploration; and these together with sporadic
trips on parts of the stretch, and considerable use-in
connection with gold placer mining-of other parts from
8
1888 to 1915, sufficed to sustain navigability.
Effect of Improvability. Respondent denied the practicability of artificial means to bring about the navigability of the New River and the 'effectiveness of any improvement to make the river a navigable wter of the
United States. The Government supported its allegation
of improvability by pointing out that the use of the section for through navigation and local boating on favorable stretches of the Radford-Wiley's Falls reach showed
the feasibility of such use and that little was needed
in the way of improvements to make the section a thoroughfare for the typical, light commercial traffic of the
area. Keelboats, eight feet wide, drawing two feet,
were the usual equipment. In the 1872 report of the
Chief of Engineers, Major Craighill in charge of New
River reports that to get '"good sluice navigation of 2 feet
at all times" for 54 miles up from the mouth of the
Greenbrier River, near Hinton, would cost $30,000 and
for 128 miles, Greenbrier to the lead mines (above Allisonia), would cost $100,000. The depth over the shoals
could be increased to 2 feet without "too much increase
283 U. S. 64, 81.
See the Report of the Master, p. 127 et seq.
276055*o.i12T

418

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

311 U. S.

of velocity of the current." This recommendation was
based on Hutton's mile-by-mile survey and includes all
of the Radford-Wiley's Falls section.
The improvements were undertaken beginning in 1877.
As the region was becoming better developed, a higher
type of improvement became desirable, wider sluice ways
and a deeper channel, usable by small steamboats,- Work
went forward above Hinton and above Radtor-d to meet
the pressing demands of the communities. Annual reports of the Chief of Engineers assumed or reaffirmed the
navigability of the entire. river above Hinton and the
practicality of the 'improvements.' 9 By 1891, $109,733.21 had been spent. It was in that year estimated
$159,000 more would be required to*complete the project
the full length from Wilson Creek to Hinton." Useful
navigation moved regularly between Hint on and near
Glen Lyn and between Radford and Allisonia. About
half the reach between Hinton and Allisonia was improved. The Radford-Wiley's Falls section was never
improved. It was reported that conditions had changed
and the project should not be completed. 1 The provisions for improvements were repealed in 1902.62 By 1912
the region's need for use of the river had so diminished
that the army engineers advised against undertaking improvements again, and even referred to the cost as
"prohibitive." 68 From the use of the Radford-Wiley's
Falls stretch and the evidence as to its' ready improvability at a low cost for easier keelboat use, we conclude
that this section of the New River is navigable. It follows from this, together with the undisputed commercial
Report for 1878, pp. 69, 495-99; 1879, pp. 79, 530-45; 1880, pp.
107-08, 676-81; 1881, pp. 144-45, 904-11 1882, pp. 140-42, 913-19;
1883, pp. 144-45, 699-705; 1886, pp. 281-82, 1599-1602..
' Report of the Chief of Engineers for 1891, p. 303.

"Id., at 302-303.
1232.Stat. 374.

a House Doc. No. 1410, 62nd Cong., 3d Sess., p. 3.

U. S. v. APPALACHIAN POWER CO.
377

419

Opinion of the Court.

use of the two stretches above Radford and Hinton, that
the New River from Allisonia, Virginia, to Hinton, West
Virginia, is a navigable water of the United 'States.,
License Provisions. The determination that the New
River is navigable eliminates from this case issues which
4
may arise only where the river involved is nonnavigable.
But even accepting the navigability of the New River,
the respondent urges that certain provisions of the
license, which seek to control affairs of the licensee, are
unconnected with navigation and are beyond the power
of the Commission, indeed beyond the constitutional
power of Congress to authorize.
The issue arises because of the prayer of the bill that
the respondent be compelled to accept the license as
required by law or remove the dam as an obstruction
and the answer of the respondent that the license required by law and tendered to it by the Commission
contains provisions, unrelated to navigation or the protection of navigable capacity, which are beyond the constitutional authority of Congress to require on account
of the Fifth and Tenth Amendments. There is no contention that the provisions of the license are not authorized by the statute. In the note below 65 the chief
"Cf. United States v. Appalachian Electric Power Co., 107 F. 2d
769, 793 et seq.
Section 4 (a) of the Act allows the Commission to regulate the
licensee's accounts.
Section 6 limits licenses to 50 years.
Section 8 requires Commission approval for voluntary transfers of
licenses or rights granted thereunder.
Section 10 (a), as amended in 1935, requires that the project be
best adapted to a comprehensive plan for improving or developing the.
waterway for the use or benefit of interstate or foreign commerce, for
the improvement and utilization of water-power developmenxt, andfor other beneficial public uses, including recreational purposes.
Under § 10 (c) the licensee must maintain the project adequately

for navigation and for efficient power operation, must maintain depreciation reserves adequate for renewals and replacements, and must

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

311 U. S.

statutory conditions for a license are epitomized. The
license offered the respondent on May 5, 1931, embodied
these statutory requirements and we assume it to be in
conformity with the existing administration of the*Power
Act. We shall pass upon the validity of only those provisions of the license called to our attention by the
respondent as being unrelated to the purposes of navigation. These are the conditions derived from §§ 10a,
10c, 1Od, 10e and 14. We do not consider that the valid
ity of Other clauses has been raised by the -. pondent's
general challenge to the constitutionality of any provision "other than those relating solely to the protection"
of navigable waters." It should also be noted that no
complaint is made of any conditions of the license dependent upon the authorization of § 10g, the omnibus
conform to the Commission's regulations for the protection of life,
health and property; (d) out of surplus earned after the first 20
years above A specified reasonable rate of return, the licensee must
maintain amortization reserves to be applied in reduction of net investment; (e) the licensee must pay the United States reasonable
annual charges-for administering the Act, and during the first 20 years
the United States is to expropriate excessive profits until the state
prevents such profits; (f) the licensee may be ordered to rimburse
those by whose construction work it is benefited.
By § 11, for projects in navigable waters of the United States the
Commission may require the licensee to construct locks, etc.,. and to
furnish the United States free of cost (a) lands and rights-of-way to
improve navigation facilities, and (.b) power for operating such
facilities.
Section 14 gives the United States the right, upon expiration of a
license, to take over and operate the project by paying the licensee's
"net investnient" as defined, not to exceed fair value of the property
taken. However, the right of the United States or any state or
municipality to condemn the project at any time is expressly reserved.
Section 19 allows state regulation of service and rates: if none exists, the Commission may exercise such jurisdiction.
"Denver Stock Yard Co. v. Uniied States, 304 U. S. 470, 484;
Pacific States Co. v. White, 296 U. S.176, 184.

U. S. v. APPALACHIAN POWER CO.
377

Opinion of the Court.

clause requiring compliance with such other conditions
as the Commission may require.
The petitioner suggests that consideration of the validity of § 14, the acquisition clause, and the license conditions based upon its language are properly to be deferred
until the United States undertakes to claim the right to
purchase the project on the license terms fifty years
after its issuance." Assuming that the mere acceptance of a license would not later bar the objection of
unconstitutional conditions, even when accompanied by
a specific agreement to abide by the statute and license,0 8
we conclude that here the requirements of § 14 so vitally
affect. the establishment and financing of respondent's
project as to require a determination of their validity
before finally adjudging the issue of injunction.
The respondent's objections to the statutory and
license provisions, as applied to navigable streams, are
based on the contentions (1) that the United States' cofitrol of the waters is limited to control for purposes of
navigation, (2) that certain license provisions take its
property without due pr.ocess, and (3) that the -claimed
right to acquire this project-and to regulate its financing, records and affairs, is an invasion of the rights of
the states, contrary to the Tenth Amendment.
Forty-one states join as amici in support of the respondent's arguments. While conceding, as of course,
that Congress may prohibit the ;erection in navigable
waters of the United States of any structure. deemed to
impair navigation, the Attorneys General speaking for
the states insist that this power of prohibition does not,
comprehend a power to exact conditions, which .are unCf. Electric Bond & Share Co. v. Securities & Exchange Comm'n,
303 U. S. 419, 435;. W. W. Cargill Co. v. Minnesota, 180 U. S. .42,
468; Mew Jersey v. Sargent, 269 U. S. 328, 339.
E,§ 6.

422

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

311 U. S.

related to navigation, for the permission to drect such
structures. To permit, the argument continues, the imposition of licenses involving conditions such as this acquisition clause, enabling the Federal Government to
take over a natural resource such as water-power, allows
logically similar acquisition of mines, oil or farmlands as
consideration for the privilege of doing an interstate business. The states thus lose control of their resources and
property is withdrawn from taxation in violation of the
Tenth Amendment.
Further, the*point is made that a clash of-sovereignty
arises between the license provisions of the Power Act
and state licensing provisions. The Commonwealth -of
Virginia advances forcibly its contention that the affirmative regulation of water-power projects on its navigable
streams within its boundaries rests with the state, beyond that needed for navigation. "While the supremacy of the Federal Government in its own proper
sphere, as delineated in the Constitution, is cheerfully
conceded, yet just as earnestly does Virginia insist upon
the supremacy of her own government in its proper field
as established by that instrument." Virginia has a
Water' Power Act."9 It, too, offers a fifty-year license,
with the right to use the natural resources of the state,
the stream flow and the beds of the water courses for the
period of the license or its extensions subject to state
condemnation at any time on Virginia's terms for ascertainment of value. Operation is likewise regulated by
-state law." The Commonwealth objects that the developmnent of its water power resources is subjected to Federal Power Act requirements such as are detailed above
in stating the respondent's objection, even to the point
that Virginia itself may not' build and operate a dam in
'Michie's

1936 Code; §§ 3581 (1)-(16).

"°Michie's 1936 Code, §§ 4065a, 4066.

U. S. v. APPALACHIAN POWER CO.
377

Opinion of the Court.

navigable water without authorization and regulation by'
the Federal Government.
The briefs and arguments at the bar have marshalect
reasons and precedents to cover the wide range of possible disagreement between Nation and State in the func-"
tioning of the Federal Power Act. To predetermine, even
in the limited field of water power, the rights of different
sovereignties, pregnant with future controversies, is beyond the judicial function. The courts deal with
concrete legal issues, presented in actual cases, not abstractions.7 1 The possibility of other uses of the coercive
power of license, if it is here upheld, is not before us.
We deem the pictured extremes irrelevant save as possibilities for consideration in determining the present question of the validity of the challenged license provisions.
To this we limit this portion of our decision. 2
The respondent is a riparian owner with a valid state
license to use the natural resources of the state for its
enterprise. Consequently it has as complete a right to
the use of the riparian lands, the water, and the river
bed as can be obtained under state law. The state and
respondent, alike, however, hold the waters and the lands
under them subject to the power of Congress to control
the waters for the purpose of commerce."3 The power
flows from the grant to regulate, i. e., to "prescribe the',
rule by which commerce is to be governed." , This inCherokee Nation v. Georgia, 5 Pet. 1, 75; United States v. West
Virginia, 295 U. S. 463, 474; New Jersey v. Sargent, 269 U. S. 328;
cf. McGuinn v. High Point, 217 N. C. 449, 458; 8 S. E. 2d 462.
"Ashwander v. Tennessee Valley Authority, 297 U. S. 288, 339.
"New Jersey v. Sargent, 269 U. S. 328, 337; United States v. River
Rouge Co., 169 U. S. 411, 419; United States v. Cress, 243 U. S. 316,
320; Willink v. United States, 240 U. S. 572, 580; United 'tates v..
Chandler-DunbarCo., 229 U. S. 53, 62; Gibson v. United States, 166
U. S. 269, 271.'
"Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheat. 1, 196.

,424

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
. Opinion of the Court.

311 U. S.

eludes the protection of navigable waters in capacity as
well as use."' This power of Congress to regulate commerce is so unfettered that its judgment as to whether
a structure is or is not a hindrance is conclusive. Its
The Federal
determination is.legislative in character.
Governmen.t has domination over the water power inherent in- the flowing stream. It is liable to no one for its
use or non-use. The flow of a navigable stream is in no
sense private property; "that the running water in a
great navigable stream is capable of private ownership
is inconceivable." Exclusion of riparian owners from
its benefits without compensation is entirely within the
Government's discretion. 7
Possessing this plenary. power to exclude structures
from navigable waters and dominion over flowage and
its product, energy, the United States may make the
erection or maintenance of a structure in a navigable
water dependent upon a license. 8 This power is xercised through § 9 of the Rivers and Harbors Act of 1899
prohibiting construction without Congressional consent
and through § 4 (e) of the present Power Act.
It is quite true that the criticized provisions summarized above are not essential to or even concerned with
navigation as such. Respondent asserts that the rights
of the United States to the use of the Waters is limited
to navigation. It is pointed out that the federal sovereignty over waters was so described in Port of Seattle v.
Oregon & Washington R. Co.." United States v. OreGilman v. Philadelphia,3 Wall. 713, 725.
78 United States v. Chandler-Dunbar Co., 229 U. S. 53, 64, 65;
Union Bridge Co. v. United States, 204 U. S. 364, 400; cf. Pennsylvania v. Wheeling Bridge Co., 13 How. 518, 18 How. 421.
" United States v. Chandler-DunbarCo., 229 U. S. 53, 66, 69, 76;
of. Ashwander v. Tennessee Valley Authority, 297 U. S. 288, 330.
"'GreenleafLumber .Co. v. Garrison, 237 U. S. 251, 268; United
-States v. Rio Grande Irrigation Co., 174 U. S. 690, 707.

"255 U. S: 56, 63.

U. S. v. APPALACHIAN POWER CO.
Opinion of the Court.

377

gon,8° Kansas v. Colorado,8 United States v. River Rouge

Company,82 and Wisconsin v. Illinois." The first two of
these cases centered around the issue of title to land
under navigable water. Nothing further was involved
as to the use of the water than its navigability. In
Kansas v. Colorado the point was the Governimient's advocacy of the doctrine of sovereign and inherent power
to justify the United States taking charge of the waters
of the Arkansas to control the reclamation of arid lands
(pp. 85-89). There was found no constitutional authority fQr irrigation in the commerce clause or the clause
relating to property of the United States. 4 It cannot be
said, however, that the case is authority for limiting
federal power over navigable waters to navigation,85 es*pecially since the stretch of the Arkansas River involved
in the dispute was asserted by the Government to be
nonnavigable (p. 86). In the River Rouge controversy,
this Court spoke of the limitation "to the control thereof
for the purposes of navigation." But there, too, it was
a question of the riparian owner's use of his property for
access to the channel, a use fixed by state law. The
conclusion that the United States could not interfere,
except for navigation, with his right of access to navigable water, required no appraisal of other rights. Wisconsin v. Illinois is a part of the Chicago Drainage Canal
litigation. In so far as pertinent here, it merely decided
that under a certain federal statute 8" there was no authority for diversion of the waters of Lake Michigan for
sanitary purposes (p. 418). There is no consideration
-0295 U. S. 1, 14..
8I206 U. S. 46,

85-86.

10269 U. S.411, 419.
278 U. S. 367, 415.
"Art. IV, § 3, cl.2.
Cf. United States v. Hanson, 167 F. 881, 884; Cincinnati Soap
Co. v. United States, 301 U. S. 308, 322.
" Cf. Sanitary District v. United States, 266 U. S. 405, 428.

426.•

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

311 U. S.

of the constitutional power to use water for other than
navigable purposes, though it is plain that other advantages occur (pp. 415, 419).
In our view, it cannot properly be said that the
constitutional power of the United States over its waters
is limited to control for. navigation. By navigation respondent means no more than operation of boats and
improvement of the waterway itself. In truth the authority of the United States is the regulation of commerce on its waters. Navigability, in the sense just
stated, is but a part of this whole. Flood protection,
watershed development, recovery of the cost of improvements through utilization of power are likewise parts
of commerce control.8 7 As respondent soundly argues,
the United States cannot by calling a project of itsown 'a 'multiple purpose dam" give to itself additional
powers, but equally truly the respondent cannot,- by
seeking to use a navigable waterway for power generation alone, avoid the authority of the Government over
the stream. -That authority is as broad as the needs
of commerce. Water power development from dams in
navigable streams is from the public's standpoint a byproduct of' the general use of the rivers for commerce.
To this general power, the, respondent must submit its
single purpose of electrical production. The fact that
the Commissiori,is willing to give a license for a power
dam only is' of no significance in appraising the type of
'donditions allowable. It may well be that this portion
of the river isnot needed for navigation at this time.
'Or that the.,dam proposed may function satisfactorily
ith 6thers, contemplated or intended. It may fit in
as a part of the river development. The point is that
pavigable waters are subject to national planning and
pontrol in the broad regulation of commerce granted the
Cf. Ashwander v. Tennessee Valley Authority, 297 U. S. 288.

U. S. v. APPALACHIAN POWER CO.
377

427

Opinion of the Court.

Federal Government. The license conditions to which
objection is made have an obvious relationship to the
exercise of the commerce power. Even if there were no
such relationship the plenary power of Congress over
navigable waters would empower it to deny the privilege
of constructing an obstruction in those waters. It may
likewise grant the privilege on terms. It is -no objection
to the terms and to the exertion of the power that "its
exercise is attended by the same incidents which attend
the exercise of the police power of the states."" The
Congressional authority under the commerce 'clause is
complete unless limited by the Fifth Amendment.
The respondent urges that as riparian owner with state
approval of its plans, it is entitled to fteedom in the
development of: its property and particularly cannot be
compelled to submit -to the acquisition clause with a
price fixed at less than a fair value, in the eminent domain sense, at the time of taking. Such a taking, it is
contended, would violate the Fifth Amendment. It is
now a question whether the Government in taking over
the property may do so at less than a fair value. It
has been shown, note 77, supra, that there is no private..
property in the flow of the stream. This has no assessable value to the riparian owner. If the Government
were now to build the dam, it would have to pay the fair
value, judicially determined,"9 for the fast land- nothing
for the water power." We assume without deciding that
by compulsion of the method of acquisition provided in
§ 14 of the Power Act and the tendered license, these
riparian rights may pass to the United States for less
than their value. In our view this "is the price which
[respondents] must pay .to secure the right to maintain
United States v. Carolene Products Co., 304 U. S. 144, 147. .f..
Mulford v. Smith, 307 U. S. 38, 48.
" MonongahelaNavigation Co. v. United States, 148 U. S. 312, 327.
"' United States v. Chandler-DunbarCo., 229 U. S. 53, 66, 76.

428

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

311 U. 8.

their dam." Th6 quoted words are the conclusion of the
opinion in Fox River Co. v. Railroad Commission." The
case is decisive on the issue of confiscation. It relates to
an acquisition clause in a.Wisconsin license by which, a
dam in navigable water of the state might be taken over
at such a price as would, this Court assumed, amount to
violation of the due process clause of the Fourteenth
Amendment if it were not for the license provision.
Title to the bank and bed were in. the objector, just as,
by virtue. of the state's license and the riparian ownership, all rights here belong to respondent. There, as
here, the rights were subject to governmental "control
of navigable waters." 9 The fact that the Fox River
case involved a, state and that this- case involves the
United States is immaterial from the due process standpoint. Since the United States might erect a structure
in. these waters, itself, even one. equipped for electrical
generation," it may constitutionally acquire one already
built.
Such an acquisition or such an option to acquire is not
an invasion of the sovereignty of a state. At the formation of the Union, the states delegated to the Federal
Government authority, to regulate commerce among the
states. So long as the things, done within the states by
the United States are validunder that power, there can
be. no interference with- the sovereignty of the state. It
is' the non-delegated power which under the Tenth
Amendment remains in the State or the people. The
water power statutes of the United States and of Virginia iecognize the' difficulties of our dual .ystem of
274 U. S. 661.1
"Id., 656.
"Ashwander v. Tennes8ee Valley Authority, 297 U. S. 288; Arizona
"V. California, 283 U. S. 423.

U. S. v. APPALACHIAN POWER CO.

429

ROBmTS, J., dissenting.

377

-government by providing, °each in its own enactments,
for the exercise of rights .of the other.' '"'
Reversed and remanded to the District Cour.t. ith
instructions to enter an order enjoining the construction,"
maintenance. or operation• of the Radford project otherwise than under a license, accepted by the respondent
within a reasonable time, substantially in the form teh- dered respondent by the Federal Power Commission on
or about May 5, 1931, or in the alternative, as prayed
in the bill.
-Reversed.
The CHIEF

JUSTICE

took no part

in the consideration

or decision of this case.
MR.

JUSTICE ROBERTS,.dissenting:.

The judgment of reversal rests on the conclusion that
New River is navigable,-a conclusion resting on findings of fact, made here de novo, and in contradiction of
the concurrent findings of the two courts :below. -I am of
opinion that. the judgment of the Circuit 0'urt of AppeaJs should be affirmed, first, because -this court ought.
to respect and give,-effect to such concurrent findings
which have substantial support in the evidence; secondly, because the evidence will not support contrary
findings if the navigability of New River be tested by
criteria long established.
1. A river is navigable in law if it is navigable in fact.'Indeed the issue of navigability vel non is so peculiarly.
one: of fact that a determination as to one stream- can
have little relevancy in determining the status of another.,
§§ 10e, 14 and. 19 of -the Federal Power Act; Michie's 1936 Vir-

ginia Code, § 3581 (9).. Oklahoma v..Texzas, 258 U. S.574, 585; 590-1; Arizona v. California,.283 U. S.423, 452; Crowell v. Bensonj 285 U. S. 22, 55..

430

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Ronwrs, 3., dissenting.

311 U. S.

As this court has said, "each determination as to navigability must stand on its own facts." 2
.The evidence supports,-indeed I think it requires,a finding that, applying accepted criteria, New River is
not, and never has been, in fact navigable. On this
record the rule of decision, many times announced by
this court, that the concurrent findings of fact of two
lower courts, if supported by substantial evidence, will
be accepted here, requires affirmance of the judgment.
The rule applies not only to evidentiary facts but to
conclusions of fact based thereon. Moreover, it has been
the basis of this court's decision in a suit involving the
question of navigability. Invoking the rule, this court,
in Brewer-Elliott Oil & Gas Co. v. United States, 260
U. S. 77, 86, declined to review a judgment based on a
concurrent finding of two lower courts that a stream "was
not, and had never been, navigable within the adjudged
meaning of that term."
The cases cited for the proposition that where navigability was an issue this court has reconsidered the facts
found by the courts below to determine whether they
have correctly applied the proper legal tests do not, when
the questions involved are understood, lend support to
the action of the court in this case
United States V. Utah, 283 U. S. 64, 87.
'The cases cited are United States v. Rio Grande Irrigation Co.,.
174 U. S. 690, 699, where this court said-with respect to the findings:
"We are not, therefore, disposed to question the conclusion reached;"
by the courts below; Leovy v. United States, 177 U. S. 621, where a
judgment on a jury's verdict was reversed for error in the judge's
instructions as to the criteria of navigability; Economy Light Co. v.
United States, 256 U. S. 113, 117, where the court did not reexamine
the facts but affirmed the judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals,
as that court-had correctly applied the test laid down in The Daniel
Ball; and United States v. Holt Bank, 270 U. S. 49, 55, where the
courts below treated the question of navigability as one of local law
to be determined by applying the rule adopted in Minnesota, and

U. S. v. APPALACHIAN POWER
377

O.

RoBFarrs, J., dissenting.

The petitioner, in effect, asks this court to convict
the
courts below of error in determining the credibility,
weight and relevance of the evidence. But that determination is peculiarly within iheir province, as this court
has often said.- The doctrine applies in this case with
especial force.' The respondent says, without contradic-.
tion, that the Government in its brief in the Circuit Court
stated: "It. cannot be said that the New River presents
a 'clear case' of navigability or non-navigability ... "
Yet this court is asked to ignore concurrent findings on
the subject.
If the evidence may fairly support these findings the.
courts below can be convicted of error only in applying
an.erroneous rule of law to the facts found.
Examination of the opinions below shows that the
courts faithfully followed the decisions of this court in
applying the law to the facts. They adopted the definition 4 and applied the criteria this court has announced
in appraising the effect of the facts found.
As shown by the cases cited in the margin,' a stream
to'be navigable in fact must have "a capacity for general
and common usefulness for purposes of trade and commerce." Exceptional use or capability of use at high
water or under other abnormal conditions will not sufthis court, though holding that they applied the wrong standard, as
the question-was one of federal law, affirmed the findings, instead of
remanding the case, since the record disclosed that according to the
right standard the water was navigable.
',Cf. The Daniel Ball, 10 Wall. 557; The Montello, 11 Wall. 411,
415; United States v. Oregon, 295 U. S. 1, 23.
'The Montello, 20 Wall. 430; United States v. Rio Grande Co.,
174 U. S. 690; Leovy v. United States, 177 U. S-621; Donnelly v.
United States, 228 U. S. 243; United States v. Cress,. 243 U. :S. 316;
Oklahoma v. Texas, 258 U. S. 574; United States v. Holt State .Bdnk,
270 U. S. 49; United States v. Oregon,. 295'U. S. 1; Harrisonv. Fite,
148 F. 781; Gulf & I. Ry. Co. v. Davis, 26 F. 2d 930, 31 F. 2d 109;

United States v. Doughton, 62 F. 2d 936.

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
ROBmTS,

J., dissenting.

311 U. S.

fice. Moreover, the stream must be used, or available to
use, "for commerce of a substantial and permanent character." Where the stream "has never been impressed
with the character of navigability by past use in commerce, . . . commerce actually in esse or at least in

posse is essential to navigability" and "a theoretical or
potential navigability or one that is temporary, precarious bnd unprofitable is not sufficient." The most important criterion by which to ascertain the navigability
of a stream is that navigability in fact must exist under
"natural and ordinary conditions." Application of these
tests by the court below to the evidence in the case led
to but one conclusion,-that New River has not been,
and is not now, a navigable water of the United States.
If the findings below had been the other way, the Government would be here strenuously contending that they
could not be set aside, as it successfully did in BrewerElliott Oil & Gas Co. v. United States, supra.
2. The petitioner contends that the application of the
accepted tests to the facts disclosed amounts to a.ruling
of law, and asserts that error in their application is reviewable. As I read the court's opinion, the argument
is not found persuasive. While apparently endorsing
it in the abstract the court, instead of relying on it,
adopts two -additional tests in the teeth' of the uniform
current of authority. If anything has been settled by our
decisions it i6 that, in order for a water to be found navigable, navigability in fact must exist under "natural and
ordinary conditions.' This means all conditions, including a multiplicity of obstacles, falls and rapids which
make navigation a practical impossibility. The court
now, however, announces that "natural and ordinary
conditions" refers only to volume of water gradients, and regularity .pf flow. No authority is cited and
I believe none can be found for thus limiting the

U. S. v. APPALACHIAN POWER CO.
377

ROBERTS,

433

J., dissenting.

connotation of the phrase. But further the court holds,
contrary to all that has heretofore been said on the subject, that the natural and ordinary condition of the
stream, however impassable it may be without improvement, means that if, by "reasonable" improvement, the
stream may be rendered navigable then it is navigable
without such improvement; that "there must be a balance between cost and need at a time when the improvement would be useful." No authority is cited and I think
none can be cited which countenances any such test. It
is of course true that if a stream in its natural and ordinary condition is navigable it does not cease to be so
because improvements have bettered the conditions of
navigation.6 But the converse is not true,-that where
a stream in its natural and ordinary condition is nonnavigable, a project to build a canal along its entire
course, or dams and locks every few miles, at enormous
expense, would render it a navigable water of the United
States. Who is to determine what is a reasonable or an
unreasonable improvement in the circumstances; or what
is a proper balance between cost and need?. If these
questions must be answered it is for Congress, certainly
not for this court, to answer them. If this test be
adopted, .then every creek in every state of -the Union
which has enough water, when conserved by dams and
locks or channelled by wing dams and sluices, to float
a boat drawing two feet of water, may be pronounced
navigable because, by the expenditure of some enormous
sum, such a project would be possible of execution. In
other words, Congress can create navigability by determining to improve a non-navigable stream.
If this criterion be the correct one, it is not seen how
any stream can be found not to be navigable nor is it
'Economy Light Co. v. United States, 256 U. S. 113.
276055--41-28

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
ROBERTS,

J., dissenting.

311 U. S.

seen why this court and other federal courts have been
at pains for many years to apply the other tests mentioned when the simple solution of the problem in each
case would have been to speculate as to whether, at
"reasonable" cost, the United States could render a most
difficult and forbidding mountain torrent suitable for the
least pretentious' form of water traffic. In the light of
the court's opinion, if this test be applied to the New
River it must, of course, be admitted that by blasting
out channels through reefs and shoals, by digging canals
around falls and rapids, and possibly by dams and locks,
the New River could be rendered fit for some sort of
commercial use. What the expense would be no one
knows. Obviously it would be enormous. Congress in
the past has undertaken to render the river navigable
and decades ago gave up the' attempt. Still we are told
that, at "reasonable" cost, the thing can be done, and
so the stream is navigable.
In the light of the grounds upon which the decision
of the court is based it hardly seems necessary to comment on the evidence, for it is in the main addressed to
issues no longer in the case. The two courts below have
analyzed it and examined it in detail and reference to
their carefully considered opinions suffices. 7 I think the
conclusion reached by the courts below must stand unless the two novel doctrines now announced be thrown
into the scale to overcome it.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS concurs in this opinion.

'23 F. Supp. 83;: 107 F. 2d 769.

