MONTGOMERY WARD & CO. v. DUNCAN.

243

Syllabus.

MONTGOMERY WARD & CO. v. DUNCAN.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.

No. 30. Argued November 12, 1940.-Decided December 9, 1940.
1. A defendant who moved the District Court successfully for judgment non obstante veredicto and who thereupon urged that, because of the granting of the judgment his alternative motion (on
other grounds) for a new trial had passed out of the case, did not
thereby elect to stand upon his motion for judgment alone and
abandon his right to have the motion for new trial decided by the
District Court should his judgment be reversed on appeal. P. 249.
2. Under Rule 50 (b) of the Rules of Civil Procedure for the District Courts, the gran.ting of a motion for judgment nbn obstante
veredicto does not effect an automatic denial of an alternative
motion for a new trial. Pp. 249-250.
3. The provision of the rule that "A motiun for a new trial may be
joined with this motion [for judgment non obstante veredicta-I,
or a new trial may be prayed for in the alternative"--does not
confine the trial judge to an initial choice of disposing of either
motion to the exclusion of the other. P. 251..
4.. Rule 50 (b) should be so administered as to accomplish all that is
permissible under its terms in avoidance of delay in litigation.

P. 253.
5. Under Rule 50 (b) where there is a motion for judgment non
obstante veredicto, and in the. alternative for a new trial because
of trial errors and matters appealing to the judge's discretion, the
judge should rule on the motion for judgment, and, whatever the
ruling thereon, should also rule on the motion for new trial, indicating the grounds of his decision. If he grants judgment non
obstante veredicto and denies a new trial, the party who obtained
the verdict may appeal from that judgment, and the appellee may
cross-assign error to rulings of law at the trial, so that if the appellate court reverses the order for judgment non obstante veredicto, it may pass on the errors of law which the appellee asserts
nullify the judgment on the verdict. P. 253.
6. Where the District Court granted judgment non obstante veredicto to the defendant, but failed to pass upon defendant's motion
in the alternative for a new trial, and the granting of the judgment

244

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

311 U. S.

non obstante veredicto was adjudged erroneous and reversed on
appeal, held, that in view of the novelty of the procedure under
Rule 50 (b) and other circumstances, the cause should be remanded to the District Court with directions to hear and rule
upon the motion for a new trial. P. 254.
108 F. 2d 848, modified.
CERTIORARI,

309 U. S. 650, to review a judgment of the

court below which reversed a judgment of the District
Court for the defendant entered non obstante veredicto
and remanded the case with instructions to the District
Court to enter judgment on the verdict in favor of the
plaintiff.
"-Mr.John A. Barr argued the cause, and Messrs. L. E.
Oliphant and J. Merrick Moore Were on the brief, for
petitioner.
Mr. Edward H. Coulter, with whom Messrs. Kenneth
W. Coulter and-Boone T. Coulter were on the brief, for
respondent.
MR. Jusanc
Court.

ROBERTS delivered the opinion of the

In this case we are called upon to determine the appropriate procedure under Rule 50 (b) of the Federal
1
Rules of Civil Procedure.
1308 U. S. Appendix, p. 63; U. S. C., Tit. 28, § 723c addendum.'
"Whenever a motion for a directed verdict made at the close of all
the evidence is denied or for any reason is not granted, the court
is deemed to have submitted the action to the jury subject to a
later determination of the legal questions raised by the motion.
Within 10 days after the reception of a verdict, a party who has
moved for a directed verdict may move to have the verdict and any
judgment entered thereon set aside and to have judgment entered
in accordance with his motion for a directed verdict; or if a verdict
was not returned such party, within 10 days aftei the jury-has been
discharged, may move for judgment in accordance with his motion
for a directed verdict. A motion for a new trial may be joined with
this motion, or a new trial may be prayed for in the alternative.

MONTGOMERY WARD & CO. v. DUNCAN.
243

245

Opinion of the Court.

To recover damages for personal injuries, respondent
(hereinafter spoken of as plaintiff) brought action
against petitioner (hereinafter spoken of as defendant),
pursuant to an Arkansas statute declaring that corporations should be liable for. injuries to an employe attributable to the negligence of a fellow employe. The complaint alleged that the plaintiff, while in the defendant's
service, had been so injured. The answer denied the
plaintiff was an employe of the defendant; denied he was
injured in the manner described or by the negligence of
his co-employe, and set up assumption of risk. ,At the
close of the evidence upon the trial, the defendant moved
for a directed verdict. The motion was denied and the
jury returned a verdict for plaintiff on which judgment
was entered. Within ten days the defendant filed its
,oritten motion in the following form:
"Comes the defendant, Montgomery Ward & Company, and files its motion praying that the jury's verdict
herein and the judgment rendered and entered thereon
be set aside and judgment entered herein for the defendant notwithstanding the verdict, and its motion for a
new trial in the alternative, and as grounds therefor
states

. .

Thereunder, in heading A, it set out nine reasons in
support ' of the motion for judgment, four of which were
general, to the effect that the verdict was ,lntrary to
law, to the evidence, to the law and the evidence, and
that the court erred in refusing to direct a verdict. Four
challenged the sufficiency of the evidence as to negligence, as to the existence, of the employment relation,
If a verdict was returned the court may allow the judgment to
stand or may reopen the judgment and either order a new trial or
direct the entry of judgment as if the requested verdict had been
directed. If no verdict was returned the court may direct the entry
of judgment as if the requested verdict had been directed or may
order.a new trial."

246

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

311 U. S.

a d as to assumption of risk, to support the verdict. One
dealt with the preponderance of the evidence and was
therefore inappropriate in support of the motion.
Under heading B, in support of the motion for a new
trial, the same reasons as were assigned for the other
motion were, with an immaterial exception, repeated;
and additional reasons were added to the effect that the
damages were excessive; that the court erred in ruling
upon evidence, and in refusing to give requested
instructions.
The'motion concluded thus:
"Wherefore, the defendant prays that the verdict of
the jury herein, and the judgment rendered and entered
thereon, be set aside, and a judgment rendered and entered herein'in favor of the defendant; and defendant
further prays in the alternative that in the event the
Court refuses to set aside the verdict rendered for the
plaintiff and the judgment in favor of the plaintiff rendered and entered on said verdict, and refuses to render
and enter judgment herein in favor of the defendant
notwithstanding said verdict and judgment, that the
court set aside said verdict and judgment on behalf
of the plaintiff qind grant the defendant a new trial
herein."
. The District Court rendered an opinion 2 holding that
there was no evidence of negligence on the part of the
co-employe and that, therefore, judgment should be
entered for the defendant.
The plaintiff filed a motion praying that, to limit the
issues on appeal, the court's order and judgment specifically show the grounds on which relief was granted, and
"in order that the judgment of the appellate court may
be final," the motion for a new trial be overruled. The
court, however,: merely entered a judgment for the
defendant notwithstanding the verdict.
'27 F. Supp. 4.

MONTGOMERY WARD & CO. v. DUNCAN.
243

247

Opinion of the Court.

The plaintiff filed a second motion reciting that, at
a hearing upon his earlier motion, the defendant had
resisted the contention that the court should rule on the
motion for a new trial as that motion "passed out of
existence and consideration on the granting of its motion
for a judgment notwithstanding the verdict." The plaintiff further recited that the court did not pass upon the
plaintiff's contentions but simply entered a judgment in
favor of the defendant, and renewed his prayer that the
court consider the motion, modify the judgment to specify
the grounds upon which relief was granted, and dispose
of all issues raised by both motions. This was denied.
The plaintiff appealed to the Circuit Court of Appeals,
which decided that the District Court erred in holding
the evidence insufficient to make a case for a jury. It
reversed the judgment and remanded the cause with instructions to the District Court to enter judgment on the
verdict in favor of the plaintiff.' It overruled the defendant's contention that the case should be remanded
with leave to the trial court to dispose of the motion
for a new trial.
The importance of a decision by this court, respecting
the proper practice under Rule 50 (b), and a conflict of
decisions,' moved us to grant certiorari.
The Circuit Court of Appeals said: -"Strictly speaking the motion did not pray for relief
in the 'alternative,' giving the court a choice between
'108 F. 2d 848.'
'Pruitt v. Hardware Dealers Mutual Fire Ins. Co., 112 F. 2d 140;
Pessagnov. Euclid Investment Co., 112 F. 2d 577. Other cases cited
seem not to have raised the precise question here presented. Leader
v. Apex Hosiery Co., 108 F. 2d 71; affirmed 310 U. S.469; Massachusetts Protective Assn. v. Mouber, 110 F. '2d 203; Lowden v.
Denton, 110 F. 2d 274; Reliance Life Ins. Co. v. Burgess, 112 F. 2d
234; Ferro Concrete Construction Co. v. United States, 112 F. 2d
488; Williams v. New Jersey-New York Transit Co., 113 F. 2d
649; Southern Ry. Co. v Bell, 114 F. 2d 341.

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

311 U. S.

two propositions either of which he might grant in the
first instance. The court was asked to rule on the motion
for a new. trial only 'in the event' he 'refuses to set aside
the verdict . . . and judgment . . . and refuses to enter
judgment herein in favor of the defendant. .. .' The
court having granted the prayer of the motion as made
did not err in not ruling on the motion for a new trial.
The condition on which the court was asked to grant a
.new.trial did not come into existence. The new rules are
not intended to prolong litigation by permitting litigants
to try cases piecemeal. Their purpose would not be accomplished if when relief is asked on condition or in the
Alternative the successful party could on reversal go back
to the trial court and demand a ruling on his conditional
or alternative proposition. The order sustaining the motion for judgment notwithstanding the verdict was
equivalent to a denial of the motion for a new trial; and
the latter motion passed out of the. case upon the entry
of the order."
. The defendant Contends that the rule continues
the
existing practice respecting granting of new trials, and
also regulates the procedure for rendering judgment notwithstanding a verdict; that the provision for an alternative motion for a new trial would be meaningless and
nugatory if the granting of the motion for judgment operated automatically to dismiss it, since the bases of the
two motions are, or may be, different, and orderly procedure requires that the court first rule on the motion
for judgment, the granting of which renders unnecessary
a ruling upon the motion for a new trial, which should
be regerved until final disposition of the former.
The plaintiff insists that the trial- court is limited to a
,choice of action on one motion or the other,, but cannot
rule upon the motion for judgment and leave that for a
new trial to be disposed of only if judgment notwithstand-

MONTGOMERY WARD & CO. v. DUNCAN.
243

249

Opinion of the Court.

ing the verdict is denied. He further asserts, in support
of the judgment below, that the uncontradicted allegations of his motion in the District Court disclose that
defendant elected to stand upon its motion for judgment
alone and that it cannot ftow repudiate the position thus
taken.
We shall consider the plaintiff's contentions in inverse
order.
1. While we took the case to review the Circuit Court's
construction of the rule, it is true that if the defendant
elected to stand on its motion for judgment and, in effect,
withdrew its motion for a -new trial, we do not reach the
question involved in. our grant of certiorari. We are,
however, unable to spell out any such election or withdrawal. The motion for. a new trial assigned grounds
not appropriate to be considered in connection with the
motion for judgment. It put forward claims that the
verdict was against the weight of the evidence and was
excessive; that the court erred in rulings on evidence anct
in refusing requested instructions. An affirmative finding with respect to any of these claims would have required a new trial whereas none of them could be considered in connection with the motion for judgment.
We think that when the, defendant urged upon the
District Court that it should not decide the motion for
a new trial because it passed out of 'existence and consideraiion on the granting of the motion for -judgment,
all that defendant meant w'as that, having- granted the
motion for judgment, the court had no occasion to pass
upon the reasons assigned in support*of the motion for
a new trial. That would obviously have been true if no
appeal had been taken from the District: Court's action
or if that action had been affirmed upon appeal.
2. We come then to the substantial question which
moved us to issue the writ, namely, whether under Rule

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

311 U. S.

50 (b) the District Court's grant of the motion for judgment effected an automatic denial of the alternative
motion for a new trial. We hold that it did not.
The rule was adopted for the purpose of speeding
litigation and preventing unnecessary retrials. It does
not alter the right of eithi party to have a question of
law -reserved upon the decision of which the court might
enter judgment for one party in spite of a verdict in
favor of the other." Prior to the adoption of the rule,
in order to accomplish this it was necessary for the court
to reserve, the question of law raised by a motion to
direct a verdict.' The practice was an incident of jury
trial at common law at the time of the adoption of the
Seventh Amendment to the Constitution.'
Rule 50 (b) merely renders unnecessary a request for
reservation of the question of law or a formal reservation; and, in addition, regulates the time and manner of
moving for direction and of moving for judgment on the
basis of the refusal to direct. It adds nothing of substance to rights of litigants heretofore existing and available through a more cumbersome. procedure.
A. motion for judgment notwithstanding the verdict
did not, at common law, preclude a motion for a new
trial.' And the latter motion might be, and often was,
presented after the former had been denied. The rule
was not intended to alter the existing right to move for
a new- trial theretofore recognized and confirmed by
statute., It permits the filing of a motion for judgrhent
'Compare Slocum v. New York Life Ins. Co., 228 U. S: 364 with
Baltimore & CarolinaLine v. Redman, 295 U. S. 654.
'Baltimore & Carolina Line v. Redman, supra, 659.
7Ibid., 660.
'Thompson, Trials, (2d Ed.) § 2726; Brannon v. May, 42 Ind. 92;
Stone v. Hawkeye ins. Co., 68 Iowa.737; Tomberlin v. Chicago, St. P.,
M. & 0. Ry. Co., 211 Wis. 144, 148; 246 N. W. 571;. 248 N. W. 121.
'See Rule 59 (a), 28 U. S. C. 723c addendum, cf. Judieial Code
§ 269, as amended, 28 U. S. C. § 391.

MONTGOMERY WARD & CO. v. DUNCAN.
243

251

Opinion of the Court.

in the absence of a motion for a new trial or the filing
of both motions jointly or a motion for i. new trial in the
alternative.
Each motion, as the rule recognizes, has its own office.
Thd motion for judgment cannot be granted unless, as
matter of law, the opponent of the movant failed to
make a case and, therefore, a verdict in movant's favor
should have been directed. The motion for a new trial
may invoke the discretion of the court in so far as it is
bottomed on the claim that the verdict is against the
weight of the evidence, that the damages rare excessive,
or that, for other reasons, the trial was not fair to. the
party moving; and may raise questions of law arising
out of alleged substantial errors in admission or rejection of evidence or instructions to the jury.
We are of opinion that the provision of the rule,"A motion for a new trial may be joined with this motion, or a new trial may be prayed for in the alternative"--does not confine the trial judge to an initial choice
of disposing of either motion, the exercise of which choice
precludes consideration of the.-.remaiping motion., We
hold that the phrase "in the alternative" means that thethings to which it refers are to be 'taken not together
but one in the place of the other.'0
The rule contemplates that either party to the'action
is entitled to the trial judge's decision on both motions,
if both are presented. A decision in favor of the moving
party upon the motion for judgment, ends the litigation
and often makes it possible for an appellate court to
dispose- of the,case without remanding. it for a new trial.
If, however, as in the present instance,, the .trial court,
erred-in granting the motion the party against whom the
verdict went is entitled to have his motion for a new trial
.considered in respect of asserted substantial trial errors
' 0 The word "alternative" may be used. properly in this sense.
Webster's Int6rnational Dictionary. Second Edition.

See

252

OCTOBER TERM, 1940
Opinion* of the Court.

311 U. S.

and matters appealing to the discretion of the judge. in
this case the reasons assigned in support of the motion
for a new trial were in both categories. The grounds
assigned for a new trial have not been considered by the
court. In the circumstances here disclosed the uniform
practice in state appellate courts has been to remand the
case to the trial court with leave to pass upon the motion
for new trial.'1
The plaintiff urges that, whereas the rule was intended
to expedite litigation, to prevent'unnecessary trials, and
to save the time of courts and' litigants, the course urged
by the defendant tends to extend the duration of litigation, to create unnecessary hardship, and to defeat the
purpose of the rule.
We are of opinion that the position is untenable. This
case well illustrates the efficacy of the procedure sanctioned by the rule. In view of the trial judge's conclusion that the plaintiff failed to make out a case for the
jury he would, under the earlier practice, simply have
"Bryan v. Inspiration Consol. Copper Co., 24 Ariz. 47; 206 P.
402; Estate.of Caldwell, 216 Cal. 694; 16 P. 2d 139; Hqyden v. John42;
son, 59 Ga. 105; Chicago & N. W. Ry. Co. v. Dimick, 96 Ill.
Daniels v. Butler, 175 Iowa 439; 155 N. W. 1013; Linker v. Union
Pac. R. Co., 87 Kan. 186; 123 P. 745;. Cummins' Estate, 271 Mich.
215; 259 N. W. 894; Kies v. Searles, 146 Minn. 359; 178 N. W. 811;
Central Metropolitan Bank v. Fidelity .& Casualty Co., 159 Minn.
28; 198 N, W. 137; Wegmann v. Minneapolis Street Ry. Co., 165
Minn. 41; 205 N. W. 433; Trovatten v'.Hanson, 171 Minn. 130;
213 N. W. 536; Fisk v. Henarie, 15 Ore. 89; 13 P. 760; Osche v.
New York Life Ins. Co., 324 Pa. 1; 187.A. 396; Altomari v. Kruger,
325 Pa. 235; 188 A. 828; Raske v. Northern Pacific Ry.. Co., 74
Wash. 155; 132 P. 865; McLain v. Easley, 146 Wash. 377; 262 P.
975; 264 P. 714. Statutory provisions or rules render it possible in
:some states to bring the grounds for new trial or the action of the
trial court on the motion for .new,. trial before the appellate court.
See Peters v. Aetna Life Ins. Co., 282 Mich. 426; 276 N. W. 504;
App. 152; 19
Kauderh v. Equitable Life Assurance Society, 299 Ill.
N. E.,630; Dochtermann,.Van & Express Co. v. Fiss, Doerr & Carroll H6rse Co., 155 App. Div. (N. Y.) 162; 140 N. Y. S. 72.

MONTGOMERY WARD & CO. v. DUNCAN.

253

Opinion of the Court.

243

granted a new trial. Upon the new trial, the judge, if
his view as to the law remained unchanged, would have
directed a verdict for the defendant. The only recourse
of the plaintiff would have been .an appeal from this
second judgment. If thi appellate court had been of the
view it here expressed, it would have reversed that judgment ard remanded the cause for a third trial. Upon
such third trial, if the trial colurt had ruled upon the
evidence and given the instructions to which the defendant objects a judgment for the plaintiff would have been
the subject of a third appeal and, if. the defendant's
position, were sustained by the appellate court, the cause
would be remanded for a fourth trial, at which proper
rulings would be rendered and proper instructions given.
Much of the delay formerly encountered may be
avoided by pursuing the *course for which the defendant
contends. But the courts should so administer the rule
as 'to accomplish all -that is permissible under its terms.
Is it necessary; if the trial judge's order for judgment be
reversed on appeal, that only thereafter he deal with the
alternative motion? If so, and he then refuses .to set
aside the original judgment, a second appeal will lie,not from his order denying a new trial, for that order,
save in most exceptional circumstances; is not appealable, 2 but from the judgment entered on the verdict,
for errors of law committed on the trial. Can such a
second appeal be avoided in the interest of speeding
litigation? We think so.
If alternative prayers or motiohs are presented, -as
here, we hold that the trial judge should rule on the
motion for judgment. Whatever his ruling thereon he
should also rule on the motion for a new trial,, indicating the grounds of his decision. "If he denies a judgment n. o. v. and also denies a new trial the judgment
on the verdict stands, and the losing party may appeal
2

See Fairmdunt Glas's Works v. Cub Fork Coal Co., 287 U. S. 474,

481-485.

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

311 U. S.

from the judgment entered upon it, assigning as error
both the refusal of judgment n. o. v. and errors of law
in the trial, as heretofore."3 The appellate court may
reverse the former action and itself enter judgment
n. o. v. or it may reverse and remand for a new trial for
errors of law. If the trial judge, as he did here, grants
judgment n. o. v. and denies the motion for a new trial,
the party who obtained the verdict may, as he did here,
appeal from that judgment. Essentially, since his action
is subject to review, the trial judge's order is an order
nisi. The judgment on the verdict may still stand, because the appellate court, may reverse the trial judge's
action. This being so, we see no reason why the appellee
may not, and should not, cross-assign error, in the appellant's appeal, to rulings of law at the trial, so that if
the appellate court reverses the order for judgment
n. o. v., it may pass on the errors of law which the
appellee asserts nullify the judgment on the verdict."'
Should the trial judge enter judgment n. o.. v. and, in
the alternative, grant a new trial on any of the grounds
assigned therefor, his disposition of themotion for a new
trial would not ordinarily be reviewable,"5 and only his
action in entering judgment would be ground of appeal.
If the judgment were reversed, the case, on remnd,
would be governed by the trial judge's award of a new
trial.
We might reverse and direct that the ause be remanded to the District Court to pass on both motions.
'Hall v. Weare, 92 U. S. 728, 732.
,This procedure is prescribed under a statute and a supplementary
court rule in Michigan; Peters v. Aetna Life Ins. Co., 282 Mich. 426;
276N. W. 504, and perhaps is indicated in Wisconsin in the absence
of statute or formal rule: Tomberlin v. Chicago, St. P., M..& 0. Ry.
'Co., 211 Wis. 144, 149; 246 N. W. 571; 248 N. W. 121.
United States v. Young, 94 U. S. 258; Young v. United States, 95
U. S. 641; Phillips v. Negley, 117 U. S. 665, 671; Hume v. Bowie, 148
U. S. 245; Fairmount Glass Works v. Cub Fork Coal Co., supra.

STEVENS CO. v. FOSTER & KLEISER CO' 255
243

Syllabus.

But that course would, in the circumstances, be neiiher
fair nor practical. As respects federal courts, the procedure perriited by the rule, is novel. The provision
which is involved in this case substantially follows the
first state statute to authorize- such procedure.8 The
Supreme Court of that State has construed 'the statute
to permit the trial judge to pass on the motion for judgment, leaving the motion for a new trial for later disposition. In the event that his decision is reversed, the
practice is to remand the cause with leave to the trial
It was
judge to pass upon the motion for a new trial.

therefore not unnatural for the defendant to advocate
that
or for the trial judge to follow it.
IIn course,
the circumstances,
we think the failure of the District Court to rule in the alternative oti both matters can
be cured without depriving -the defendant of opportunity
to have its motion for a new trial heard and decided by
the trial court, by modifying the judgment below to provide that the cause be remanded to the District Court
to hear and rule upon that motion.
Modified.
C. E. STEVENS COMPANY ET AL. v. FOSTER &
KLEISER CO. ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE

.CIRCUIT

COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE

NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 41.

Arued November 19, 20, 1940.-Decided December 9, 1940.

A complaint in a suit, for triple damages under the Sherman Antitrust Act, brought by a poster advertising company against others
engaged in that business, adequately alleged a conspiracy by the
defendants to monopolize the business of bill posting by restraining
interstate commerce in the transportation of 'posters. The corn.62 Mason's Minnesota Statutes (1927) § 9495.
"See the Minnesota cases cited in note 11.

