20

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Argument fcr Petitioner.

311 U. S.

WEST INDIA OIL CO. (PUERTO RICO) V: DOMENECH,TREASURER OF PUERTO RICO.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIRST CIRCUIT.

No. 26. 'Argued October 23, 24, 1940.-Decided November 12, 1940.
1. Section 3 of the Organic Act of Puerto Rico, as amended by the
Act of March 4, 1927, authorizing the insular legislature to levy
internal-revenue taxes as soon as the articles to be taxed are
manufactured, sold, used, or "brought into the Island," gives the
consent of Congress to a nondiscriminatory sales tax so far as it is
-laid on the delivery, in consummation of sales, of fuel oil imported
in bond and withdrawn, duty free (pursuant to the Tariff Act of
1930 and the Revenue Act of 1932), for delivery to vessels in
Puerto Rican ports for use as fuel upon their voyages to ports
of the United States or foreign countries. McGoldrick v. Gulf Oil
Corp., 309 U. S. 414, distinguished. P. 25.
2. Considering the relationship of general Congressional legislation to
legislation -specifically applicable to the territories and insular possessions, repeals by implication are not to be favored and will not
be adjudged unless the legislative intention to repeal is clear.
P. 29.
108 F. 2d 144, affirmed.

THIS was a suit brought by,the Oil Company against

Bonet, Treasurer-of Puerto Rico (for whom Domenech,
successor in the office, has been substituted) praying for a
determination of the validity of the taxes in question..
A declaratory judgment rendered by a District Court of
Puerto Rico against the tax was reversed by a judgment
of the Supreme Court of the Territory, 54 P. R. Dec. 732,
which was in turn affirmed by the court below.
Mr. James R.Beverley for petitioner.
So long as the goods remain under the control of the
Customs Service, the merchandise is in process of importation and can not be taxed by States or other taxing

WEST INDIA OIL CO. v. DOMENECH.
20

21

Argument for Petitioner.

jurisdictions, other than the United States. A territorial
tax at this stage either on the property or on a transaction moving the property would be equivalent to an
"import duty," which Puerto Rico can not lay. To hold
otherwise would be to permit the States and Territories
to interfere with 'and perhaps even prohibit (through
taxes or other exactions) the importation of foreign
goods,-a power denied to them under the Constitution,
Art. I, § 8, Cl. 3. The foreign fuel oil came under the
immediate and complete supervision of the United States
Customs Service from the moment it entered the harbor
of San Juan (or Ponce, as the case may be); and such
supervision and control never ceased until the oil was
consumed at sea by ships in their journeys. It was never
"imported" into Puerto Rico, but was merely entered in,
bond until such time as it should be delivered to the ships'
bunkers. Technically, it never entered the Island and
never became a part of the mass of property there, but
remained apart under federal control.
The Tariff Act of 1930, as amended, in dealing with
certain supplies to ships, including fuel oil, states that
such supplies shall be treated as "exported." The Revenue Act of 1932, § 601 (b), provides that the taxes involved "shall be treated for the purposes of all provisions
of law relating to customs revenue as a duty imposed by
such Act .

.'."

(Tariff Act of 1930).

So far as this

fuel oil is concerned, all the provisions of law relating to
customs duties apply. Further, Art. 942 of the Customs
Regulations of 1931, incorporated by reference in the
Tariff Act, provides that "Imported goods in bonded warehouses are exempt from taxation under the general laws
of the several States." This regulation also appears in
Customs Regulations of 1937 (Art. 940) and in prior
regulations (1923). Congress in the title to the Tariff
Act of 1930 haq asserted that one of the purposes of the
Act is to "regulate commerce with foreign countries" and

22

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Argument for Petitioner.

311 U. S.

another purpose is "to encourage the industries of the
United States."
The Territory of Puerto Rico is bound by this expressed intention of Congress and is bound to treat this
fuel oil as if it were an export. It follows that no tax on
any transaction moving this oil in commerce could be
laid by Puerto Rico, being prohibited both by the Revenue Act of 1932, and by the Customs Regulations.
The fuel oil never left the channels of interstate or
foreign commerce. In such case, a tax can not be validly
laid by Puerto Rico on the delivery of the oil to ships'
bunkers. It would seem also that a tax on this oil or
upon the delivery to ships' bunkers would be a direct burden on interstate and foreign commerce, since the oil is
used exclusively in the propulsion of ships in interstate
and foreign commerce. From a practical standpoint, if
the present tax is valid, the Insular Government could
impose such taxes as to make it impossible for ships to
fuel in Puerto Rican ports and thus drive them to fuel in
foreign or other potts. The debates in Congress on the
Revenue Act of 1932 and its amendments show that Congress had precisely this situation in mind when it exempted ships' supplies from taxes.
McGoldrick v. Berwind-White Coal Mining Co., 309
U. S. 33, held that the New York City sales tax was applicable to a contract of sale made in New York for
delivery in New York from Pennsylvania. But this
Court has never held that the State of exit could levy
a tax on goods moving in interstate commerce or on the
transaction moving them. In the instant case, the fuel
oil is moved out of Puerto Rico to the high seas by the
transaction attempted to be taxed, and the contract for
sale is not. made in Puerto Rico; with the added important fact that the fuel oil was never technically in Puerto
States
Rico, but was under the control of the United case
is
this
principle,
On
times.
all
at
Service
Customs

WEST INDIA OIL CO. v. DOMENECH.
20

Points for Respondent.

analogous to the case of McGoldrick v. Gulf Oil Corporation, 309 U. S. 414.
Mr. William CattronRigby, with whom Messrs. George
A. Malcolm, Attorney General of Puerto Rico, and, Nathan R. Margold were on the brief, for respondent.
This tax on sales is an excise.
The power of the Legislature extends to levying an
excise on the business activities of a domestic corporation
of Puerto Rico, regardless of whether the subject matter of those activities, if, as here, movable personal property, is then actually located within the jurisdictional
territorial limits of Puerto Rico, or not. Plaintiff's deposit of the oil in a bonded warehouse is, therefore, immaterial here, for any purpose.
The sales were made "in Puerto Rico," within the
meaning of § 62 of the local excise law here involved.
The -established rule of the respect to be accorded to
the decision of a local territorial supreme court, interpreting local territorial statutes and laws, is peculiarly applicable here.
The levy of this excise on, the first sale in Puerto Rico
of this oil"is within the authority expressly granted by the
Congress by the proviso added to § 3 of the Organic Act
by the Butler Act amendment of March 4, 1927, authorizing the levy and collection of internal-revenue taxes by
the Legislature of Puerto Rico, "on the articles subject
to said tax, as soon as the same are . . . brought into the
island," and directing the officials of the customs and postal services of the United States "to assist the appropriate
officials of the Porto Rican government in the collection
of these taxes."
That this oil was brought in from a foreign country,and that the sale in Puerto Rico was its first sale after
landing, is immaterial.
The legislative history of the Butler Act emphasizes
the intention of the Congress.
The commerce clause is not applicable.

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

311 U. S.

It is wholly immaterial that Congress by § 309 of the
Tariff Act of 1930 directed that federal tariff taxes and
duties should be remitted upon oil imported from foreign
countries and used for the propulsion of ships in domestic
commerce between Puerto Rico (or other off-shore Territories or possessions) and the mainland. There is no repeal of the local taxing powers expressly granted the Legislature of Puerto Rico.
This case is not governed by McGoldrick v. Gulf Oil
Corporation,309 U. S. 414.
MR. JisTIcE STONE delivered the opinion of the Court.
The question is whether a Puerto Rico sales tax imposed by §§ 16 (a), 62 of the Internal Revenue Act of
Puerto Rico, (as amended by Act No. 17 of June 3, 1927,
Laws of 1927, Special Session, pp. 458-486), is invalid
because as applied it infringes Congressional regulations
of foreign and domestic commerce effected by the tariff
laws and customs regulations of the United States. The
tax is challenged so far as it is laid on the delivery, in
consummation of sales, of fuel oil which has previously
been imported in bond and then withdrawn, duty free,
for delivery to vessels in Puerto Rican ports for use as
fuel upon their voyages to ports of the United States
or foreign countries. The Court of Appeals for the First
Circuit has affirmed the judgment of the Supreme Court
of Puerto Rico sustaining the tax, 54 P. R. Dec. 732
(Spanish edition). 108 F. 2d 144. We granted certiorari,
309 U. S.652, because the question presented is of importance in the administration of the customs, laws of the
United States and of the revenu laws of Puerto Rico,
and because of an asserted conflict with our decision in
McGoldrick v. Gulf Oil Corp., 309 U. S.414.
Petitioner brings fuel oil from a foreign country, where
it is produced and refined, to Puerto Rico, where it is
stored in bonded warehouses in the joint custody of peti-

WEST INDIA OIL CO. v. DOMENECH.
20

Opinion of the Court.

tioner and the customs officers of the United States, as
provided by § 555 of the Tariff Act of 1930, 46 Stat. 743,
19 U. S. C. § 1555, and applicable customs regulations.
From time to time petitioner withdraws some of the oil
from bond, for disposition and use in Puerto Rico. Petitioner also withdraws some of the oil, with which we are
now concerned, and delivers it to vessels in Puerto Rican
ports upon sales .for use as ships' stores in the manner.
already indicated. Upon such withdrawal and delivery
the import tax imposed on fuel oil by § 601 (a) (c) (4) of
the Revenue Act of 1932, 47 Stat. 169, 259-260, and
required by § 601 (b) to be "treated for the purposes of
all provisions of law relating to the customs revenue as
a duty imposed by . . . [the Tariff Act of 1930]" is
remitted pursuant to § 309 of the Tariff Act of 1930,
46 Stat. 590, 690 and § 630 of the Act of 1932, added
by the amendment of June 16, 1933, 48 Stat. 256.
Section 309 authorizes withdrawal from bonded warehouse, duty free under treasury regulations, of articles
of foreign manufacture or production for use as ships'
supplies, and §§ 601 (b), 630 of the Revenue Act of 1932
extend the benefit of those provisions to fuel oil imported
in bond and withdrawn and "sold for use as fuel . .
on vessels . . . engaged in foreign trade or trade . ..
between the United States and any of its possessions."
See McGoldrick v. Gulf Oil Corp., supra, 423 et seq.
It is true, as petitioner urges, that in McGoldrick v.
Gulf Oil Corp., supra, we held that the provisions of the
Tariff Act of 1930 and of the Revenue Act of 1932, and
the customs regulations relating.to bonded manufacturing warehouses, when applied to crude oil imported into
New York and there manufactured into fuel oil in bonded
warehouses and withdrawn duty free for sale as ships'
stores, manifested an intention of Congress to regulate
the foreign commerce involved, in the interest-of and for
the protection of American manufacturers, and that a

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

311 U. S.

state tax on the sale was invalid because in conflict with
such regulation. We do not stop to consider whether, as
respondent insists, a different result should be reached
here because the imported oil was imported in its manufactured state and was not, as in the Gulf Oil case, earmarked for manufacture in bonded warehouse and
withdrawn after manufacture for sale as ships' stores.
We need not now determine whether standing alone the
statutory characterization of the oil sold as ships' supplies
as "exports" within the meaning of the customs laws,
§ 309 (b) Tariff Act of 1930; § 630 of the Revenue Act
of 1932, does niore than make applicable to it the provisions of the Tariff Act of 1930 for remission of customs duties. upon merchandise imported in bond and
later exported. Nor is it necessary to examine the
various arguments advanced that the tax, without the
consent of Congress, is an infringement of its constitutional power over commerce. For we think a sufficient
answer to all the contentions of petitioner is to be found
in the Congressional consent to the tax given by the
March 4, 1927 amendment of § 3 of the Organic Act of
Puerto Rico, 44 Stat. 1418.
1 Before the amendment, § 3 had prohibited duties "on
exports from Puerto Rico," but had provided that "taxes
and assessments on property, internal revenue" etc., "may
be imposed for the purposes of the insular and municipal
governments, respectively, as may be provided and defined
by the Legislature of Puerto Rico. . . ." Congress, by
the amendment, added to § 3 a prQviso "that the internal-revenue taxes levied by the Legislature of Puerto
Rico in pursuance of the authority granted by' this Act on
articles, goods, wares or merchandise may be levied and
collected as such legislature may direct, on the articles
subject to said tax, as soon as the same are manufactured,.
sold, used, or brought into the island: Provided, That no'
discrimination be made between the articles imported.

WEST INDIA OIL CO. v. DOMENECH.
20

Opinion of the Court.

from the United States or foreign countries and similar
articles produced or manufactured in Puerto Rico. The
officials of the Customs and Postal Services of the United
States are hereby directed to assist the appropriate officials of the Puerto Rican government in the collection of
these taxes."
The plain purport of the words of this proviso is that
any tax authorized by the Organic Act with respect to articles of domestic production may likewise be levied with
respect to imported articles "as soon as ... [they] . . .
are manufactured, sold, used, or brought into the island"
provided only that there be no tax discrimination between
articles brought from the United States and foreign.countries and domestic articles. The amendment seems to
have been occasioned by doubts which had arisen whether
merchandise brought to the Island from the United States
was subject to local taxation while in the original package
and also whether the merchandise has while in the control of the customs authorities, the same status as respecta
local taxation as goods similarly controlled which have
been imported from fbreign countries and whether -the
power of the insular legislature to tax imports from foreign
countries was any greater than that of the states which are.
forbidden, by Clause 2, of § 10 of Art. I of the Constitution,
to tax imports and exports without the consent of Congress. S. Rept. No. 1011, 69th Cong., 1st Sess., p. 2. Cf.
S&nneborn )roa. v. Cureton,262 U. S. 506, with Baldwin, v.
Seelig, 294 U. S. 511,526: These questions were involved
in PuertoRico Tax Appeals, 16 F. 2d 545, decided January
7, 1927, shortly before the amendment of § 3 of the Organic
Act. The judgments in that case were reversed and the
suits ordered dismissed by this Court for want of jurisdiction, October 24, 1927 (275 U. S. 56), after the amendment to the Organic Act of March 4,1927, which deprived
the federal courts of jurisdiction in the pending and other
like suits to restrain the' assessment and collection of
Puerto Rico taxes.

28

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

311 U. S,

Moreover practical difficulties appear to have been experienced in levying insular taxes upon goods on their
arrival from the United States and while in the custody
or control of postal or customs officers, due to the fact
that the local tax while in its practical effect a customs
duty was not collected by postal or customs officials.
S. Rept. No. 1011, 69th Cong., 1st Sess. The doubts
and the difficulty were removed by the amendment to
§ 3, giving. the Congressional consent that articles should
be subject to the taxing jurisdiction of the Puerto Rico
legislaturr as soon as brought into the Island whether
from the United -States or from foreign countries, and
directing that the United States customs officials and
postal service should aid local officers in the collection
of the tax. The effect of the broad language of the
amendment was'not only to subject to taxation all imported goods, whether from the United States or foreign
countries, when brought into the Island in the original
package, but to neutralize the regulatory effect of the
customs laws and regulations in so far as they protected
articles from local taxation after their arrival. Merchandise in the original package was thus subjected to
tax when brought into the Island without regard to customs regulations. It would seem plain that other merchandise not in the original package was left in no more
favorable situation and in the face of the broad and unambiguous language of the statute we cannot say that
the one, more than the other, is immune from local taxation. Even if the oil sold as ships' stores were to be
regarded as "exported," cf. Swan & Finch Co. V. United
States, 190 U. S. 143, 145; United States v. Chavez, 228
U. S. 525; Cunard S. S. Co. v. Mellon, 262'U. S. 100, the
tax is one clearly within the terms of-the proviso added
to § 3 and so is one consented to by the United States.
The procedure for segregating imported merchandise
in bond without payment of. customs duties pending its

WEST INDIA OIL CO. v. DOMENECH.
20

R~m, J., dissenting.

withdrawal and shipment out of the country is old, long
antedating the amendment of § 3 of the Organic Act.
See McGoldrick v. Gulf Oil Corp., supra. The later Acts
of 1930 and 1932 thus placed fuel oil, so far as Puerto Rico
is concerned, in the same category as other merchandise
brought into the Island in the original package or in
bond which, by virtue of the proviso of § 3 of the Organic
Act, was made subject to local taxation as soon as brought
into the Island. The extension by Congress to fuel oil
of the benefits of the customs laws and regulations affecting merchandise imported in bond did not imply that
those laws and regulations were to be given any different
effect in Puerto Rico than they then were permitted
to have under § 3 of the Organic Act. In any event,
considering the relationship of general Congressional legislation to legislation specifically applicable to our territories and possessions, repeals by implication are not to
be favored and will not be adjudged unless the legislative
intention to repeal is clear. Posadas v. National City
Bank, 296 U. S. 497, 501 et seq.
Affirmed.
MR.

JUSTICE REED,

dissenting.

This judgment should be reversed on the authority of
McGoldrick v. Gulf Oil Corp., 309 U. S. 414. That case
has just established the superiority of a federal statute
for the protection of commerce over a state's right to
levy a sales tax. In it we pointed out that it was inconsistent with the plenary power of Congress over commerce
to permit local exactions to cut in to the competitive advantages .provided through the remission of customs
duties to, suppliers and exporters by the ship stores and
fuel oil provisi'onsof § 309 of the Tariff Act of 1930 and
S 601 (b) and § 630 of the Revenue Act of 1932. Congress authorized these advantages to give our ship chan-

30

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
REED,

J., dissenting.

311 U. S.

dlers opportunity to compete for this trade on an even
basis with nonresidents. The Gulf Oil case held that imported fuel oil carried in New York bonded warehouses
for export might be sold, under Treasury oversight, to
noncoastwise shipping without payment of the city sales
tax. The opinion demonstrated that the purpose of Congress would be thwarted if local taxation were permitted
to interfere. The same holding in my opinion is required
here.
Fuel oil imports into Puerto Rico are governed by the
same tariff provisions, regulations for bonded warehouses
and deliveries in bond to purchasers for use in overseas
voyages as are those into the continental United States.
The language of the Butler Act is held by the Court to
require different treatment in New York or Puerto Rico
of the same situation, despite the tax inequality produced
between the respective taxing units. One would expect
that Puerto Rico would have no more authority than a
state to levy a sales tax on bonded fuel oil; but this
Court's ruling permits it to tax where New York failed.
The authority is said to lie in the grant by Congress
to Puerto Rico of thfe right to tax "as soon as the same
[articles subject to tax] are manufactured, sold, used, or
brought into the Island." As the fuel oil is brought into
the Island, this Court's opinion concludes, it is taxable.
The report upon the Butler Act points out the reason
for its enactment. 1 It was to enable Puerto Rico to tax
'"In making use of the authority granted by section 3 to levy and
collect internal-revenue taxes the government of Porto Rico has found
itself unable to collect said taxes on articles purchased in and sent
from the United States to Porto Rico by mail, or sometimes when said
articles are sent by vessel, as the courts have held that the post-office
or customs officials have no authority to withhold [the] delivery of
such articles subject to the internal-revenue tax until the tax is paid,
as such tax collected in this manner is in effect a customs duty. In
other words, the courts have held that the internal-revenue tax can

WEST INDIA OIL CO. v. DOMENECH.
20

REED,

J., dissenting.

in the original package. It should take more than a
general tax authorization to destroy the symmetry of the
federal control over imports bonded for export and to
permit local taxation in Puerto Rico of what is free from
local taxation in New York. "Brought" should be construed to mean when goods pass from the customs control td private control, or the authority to tax of the
Butler Act should be held to be subject to the federal
power of tax exemption exercised generally in favor of
fuel oil by § 309 of the Tariff Act of 1930 and § 601 (b)
and § 630 of the Revenue Act of 1932. Since the right
to tax imports in the original package, granted Puerto
Rico by the Butler Act, merely makes goods in the original package in Puerto Rico taxable as other goods in the
common mass of taxable property, the Butler Act gives
to Puerto Rico no broader power to tax oil sales than was
not be collected while the article subject to the tax is in the original
package.
"This condition of affairs has practically nullified the power of the
insular government to levy internal-revenue taxes, and therefore the
efficacy of this source of revenue has been: seriously impaired.
"For the purpose of righting this situation, a new provision is added
to section 3, which states as follows:
"And it is further provided, That the internal-revenue taxes levied
by the Legislature of Porto Rico in pursuance of the authority
granted by this act on articles, goods, wares, or merchandise may be
levied and collected as such legislature may direct, on the articles
subject to said tax, as soon as the same are manufactured, sold, used,
or brought into the island: Provided, That no discrimination in rates
be made between the articles imported from the United States or
foreign countries and similar articles produced or manufactured in
Porto Rico.. The officials of the Customs and Postal Services of the
United States are hereby directed to-'assist the appropriate officials
of the Porto Rican government in the collection of these taxes.
"It is expected that the government of Porto Rico will so make use.
of this power as not to unnecessarily place any barriers in the way of
the free-trade conditions now existing between [Porto Rico] and the
mainland, which is the principal factor in the progress and prosperity
of Porto Rico." (Senate Rep. No. 1011, 69th Cong., 1st Sess., p. 2.)

32

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Syllabus.

311 U. S.

possessed by New York, by virtue of its sovereign power,
in the Gulf Oil case. McGoldrick v. Berwind-White Co.,
309 U. S. 33. Nothing requires us to frustrate the legislative policy of free competition in world markets.
The decree below should be reversed.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS joins in this opinion.
HANSBERRY ET AL. v. LEE ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF ILLINOIS.

No. 29. Argued October 25, 1940.-Decided November 12, 1940.
Numerous owners of lots in a particular area agreed in writing, each
severally with each of the others, that their lots should not be
sold to or occupied by Negroes, the effectiveness of the agreement
being conditioned, however, upon signing by owners of a specified
percentage of the lot frontage. In a case in a state court, tried
upon an agreed statement of facts, in which it was stipulated (erroneously) that this condition had been complied with, and in
which the issue litigated was whether the agreement had ceased to
be enforceable in equity by reason of changes in the restricted
area, an owner of one of the lots, suing in behalf of himself and of
others in like situation, obtained a decree enjoining violation of
the agreement by four individuals, who asserted an interest in
the restricted land through another signer of the agreement, but
who were not treated by the pleadings or decree as representing
others or as foreclosing by their defense the rights of others, and
whose interest in defeating the contract did not appear to outweigh
their interest in sustaining it. Held:
1. That others who were privy to the agreement, but not made
parties to the litigation, and whose substantial ihterest was in
resisting performance of the agreement, could not be bound by the
decree upon the theory that the suit was a class suit in which
they were duly represented. Pp. 39, 44.
2. That a decree of the state court in a 'second, similar suit,
adjudging such other persons estopped by the former decree as res
judicata from defending upon the ground that the condition precedent of the agreement had not been fulfilled, was in violation of the
due process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. Pp. 40,-44.
172 Ill.
369; 24 N. E. 2d 37, reversed.

