DICKERMAN v. I ORTHERN TRUST COMPANY.

181

Statement of the Case.

DIOKERMAN v. NORTHERN TRUST COMPANY
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT CF ' APPEALS FOR THE SEVENTH
CIRCUIT.
Mo.88. Argued April 5, 6,1899. -Decded Jaunry.22,1900.,

A mortgagt, given to secure a large number of bonds, provided that the
bonds should become payable if any executqn should be sued out aganst;
the property of the company, and such company should not forthwith
pay the same. A bondholder brought suit before a justice of the peace
upon six coupons. The defendant company consented to a judgment
and to the issue of an execution; and upon the sqme day the trustees
gave notice that, by reason of such execution having been unpaid, they
declared the principal and interest upon all the bonds to be immediately
payable) and at once took possession of the property. Held: That,
while thesi proceedings were taken by connivance and consent of the
parties, they were not collusive in a legal sense, as the debt was honestly
due and the plaintiff entitled to the judgment. Held, also: That while
the judgment was obtained for the obvious purpose of enabling the
trustees to declare the mortgage to be due, the court would not inquire
into the motives of the parties.
Where a bill is filed to foreclose a mortgage, and the answer admits the
bonds secured by such mortgage to have been issued, it Is not necessary
that the bonds should be put in evidence before a decree of foreclosure
and sale.
Bonds payable "to the bearer, or, when registered, to the registered owner
thereof," and declared-o be due on or before a certain date, are, negotiable, though redeemable by instalments determined by annual drawings.
The fact that the mortgagor corporation may have been organized for the
purpose of creating a trust or unlawful combination in restraint of trade,
is no defence to the mortgage.
The fact that such corporation was organized in pursuance of a fraudulent
scheme to defraud certain stockholders who had contributed their properties to the capital stock of the corporation, is no def~nce to P,foreclosure of the mortgage, so far, at least, as the bonds were held by parties
innocent of the fraud.
Promoters of a corporation are bound to the exercise of good faith toward
all the stockholders, to disclose all the facts relating to the property,
and to select competent persons as directors, who will act honestly in
the interest of the shareholders, and are precluded from taking a secret
advantage of other shareholders.

THIs was.a bill in equity filed in the Circuit Court for the
Northern District of Illinois by the 3{orthern Trust Company,

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Statement of the Case.

a corporation organized under the laws of Illinois having
its principal office in Chicago, and Ovid B. Jameson, a citizen
of the State of Indiana, as trustees, against the .Columbia
Straw Paper Company, a corporation organized' under the
laws of the State of New Jersey, to foreclose a trust deed of
some thirty-nine paper mill properties, leaseholds and water
powers, situated in thirty-two different counties axild in nine
different States. This deed, which was dated December 31,
1892, was given to secure the payment of one thousand bonds
of the paper company of one thousand dollars each, with
coupons bearing interest at six per cent per annum, payable
half. yearly. These bonds were issued and delivered to one
Emajiuel Stein, in part payment for the properties. acquired
by it from him.
The bill, which was in the ordinary form of a foreclosure bill,
averred that by the terms of the bonds it was agreed by the
paper company that it would redeem, on the first day of December, 1893, one hundted of such bonds, and annually thereafter until December 1, 1901, a similar number, and that the
principal of such bonds should become due, if the paper company should make default for a period of three months in the
payment of any interest, and an election so to do were given in
writing; that by the terms of the mortgage or deed of trust, it
should become enforceable, provided default were made in the
payment of any one of the bonds which had become due andpayable for one month thereafter.; or, if default should be made
in the payment of interest on any of such bonds, or in th.e performance of any of the covenants or conditions in the bonds or
mortgage, and such default should continue for three months
after written demand for payment or performance by the Trust
Company, or if a judgment or order should be made, or any
effective resolution adopted by the paper company for the
winding up of such company, "or if a distress, attachment,
garnishment or execution be respectively levied or sued out
against any of the chattels or property of either company,
and such company shall not forthwith upon such distress,
attachment, garnishment or execution being levied or sued
out, remove, discharge or pay such distress, attachment,
garnishment or execution."

DICKERMAN v. NORTHERN TRUST COMPANY.

183

Statement of the Case.

The bill alleged as the only grounds for enforcing the
security of the mortgage, (1) that the mortgagor had madedefault in redeeming or discharging the several amounts of
bonds designated in the mortgage and bonds for redemption;
(2) in failing to pay certain instalments of interest; and (3) in
failing to pay.a certain execution sued out on January 22, 1895,
against the property of the company upon a judgment obtained against it by-one James Flanagan before a justice of
the peace of Cook County, Illinois., That by reason of such
default complainants had declared the principal and interest
of the bonds to be irmediately due and payable.
The bill contained the usual prayer for foreclosure and sale,
and for a receiver and an injunction against disposing of any
of the mortgaged propefty. The trustees having taken possession of the property, a receiver was appointed. by consent
of the company upon the same da7r the bill was filed.
The answer of the paper company admitted the material
allegations of the bill, averred its inability to pay its debts,
and asserted that the property covered by the mortgage was
worth much more than the amount of the bonds and the
indebtedness of the company.
. A few days thereafter Dickerman, together with others,
filed a petition setting forth that they, with other stockholders of the defendant company, had been injured by the
wrongful and fraudulent manner in which its securities had
been issued; that the defendant and its defence were under
the'control and direction of the bondholders and their trustees;
that the directors were not fitted to conduct the suit by reason
of their adverse interests, and prayed to be made defendants
and be allowed to plead, answer or demur to the bill, and to
file a cross-bill. This was allowed.
Thereipon petitioners filed their answer admittini the executiomn of the bonds and mortgage, but denying that the bondholders were entitled to the benefit of the trust created by
the mortgage; denied that all of the one thousand bonds were
duly issued, negotiated and sold, oi, that they were outstanding and valid obligations of the mortgagor; and also denied
that all of such bonds and coupons had come into the posses-

OCTOBER TERM,. 1899.
Statement of the Case..

sion of, or were held by, persons who had become the owners
thereof in good faith and for a valuable consideration.
They further set forth in great detail the manner in which
the combination had been formed in the summer of 1892, to
purchase seventy paper mills with their plants, appliances and
good will, by means of securing from their respective owners
option contracts whereby each owner agreed to sell his property to the combination for a stated sum in cash, and the
residue in the capital stock of the corporation to be organized,
to which the seventy paper mills, with their properties, etc.,
were to be conveyed; that the corporation so to be formed
was to be capitalized at $3,000,000 of common and $1,000,000
of preferred stock, to be issued at par, in part payment forthe mills at the option prices so obtained, until the whole
amount was exhausted, and that in such contingency the corporation so to be organized was to have the power to issue
$1,000,000 of its bonds to complete the, payment for said
mills; that after options had been obtained upon thirty-nine
mills, the total purchase price of which was $2,788,000 in
cash, stock and notes the parties met to consider them, and
decided that it would be necessary to provide $1,000,000 to
pdrchase the property and furnish the running capital; that
the combination thereupon caused the option contracts to be
transferred to one Emanuel Stein, and then arranged to divide
up and to fraudulently appropriate to themselves $2,113,000
of the capital stock of the proposed corporation, which would
not be required to pay for the thirty-one mills which were
left out of the combination.
That after having arranged how many of the one thousand
mortgage bonds of the new corporation each member of the
combination was to receive for an equal amount in cash, and
how many shares of preferred and common stock each was to
receive gratuitously with bonds, they caused articles of incorporation to be filed December 6, 1892, in the State of New
-Jersey, to organize the paper company with a capital stock of
$4,000,000, with, themselves and their ageiits as directors.
That on December 14, 1892, they procured Stein, who heldthe option contracts for the purchase of the thirty-nine mills,

DICKERMAN v. NORTHERN TRUST COMPANY.

185

Statement of the Case.
to present to the stockholders a proposition to secure the titles
to the thirty-nine mills, and to convey the same to the new corporation for $5,000,000, as follows: $1800 in cash; $1,000,000
in first mortgage bonds; $1,000,000 in preferred and $2,998,200
in the common stock of the new company; that this proposition was accepted by the stockholders and also by the directors,
and the property conveyed to the company; the bonds and
capital stock divided among the members of the combination,
as had been previously arranged, aed that such persons still
owned and were still liable for their capital stock in a much
larger amount than the bonds of the company; and that the
latter were owned by the same persons, who were liable on
their stock. That the Columbia Straw Paper Company having been organized for the purpose of taking such conveyances, and thus consolidating said mill plants, their contention
was, that by reasori of fraudulent overvaluation of the various
mill plants and properties upon which options of purchase had
'been taken, a defence in the nature of a set-off existed in favor
of the company against such bondholders as were also stockholders to the extent of the unpaid part of the stock held by
them.
The answer also contained an averment that the judgm.nt and execution in favor of Flanagan before a justice of
the peace was a fraudulent and collusive act on the part of the
managers of the defendant company, in order to give the
trustees the right to begin this foreclosure proceeding; that
in pursuance of this the directors had fraudulently neglected
and refused to pay six interest coupons on the bonds owned
by Flanagan, in order that a suit might be instituted thereon;
that the defendant corporation appeared upon the return of
the summons, consented to an immediate trial, made no defence, but allowed judgment to be entered and an execution
to issue on the same day, and that the firm of lawyers who
had devised this proceeding acted as solicitors for the trustees
in filing the bill of foreclosure. It was denied that the Straw
Paper Company was insolvent, and was averred that the complainants and others had combined to wreck the company
and defraud: the defendant stockholders by withdrawing from

186

OCTOBER- TERMI, 189"9.
Statement of the Case.

the treasury of the company bonds. and stock to the value of
$3,000,000, which the complainants held in trust for the company, and that the same are assets and not liabilities, as in
the bill of complaint alleged.
Defendants also filed a cross-bill for an accounting in respect of the transactions complained of, especially in reference
to the issue of the alleged mQrtgage bonds and the preferred
and common stock; and if, on such accounting, anything
should appear to be due from any-of the defendants to -the
Straw Paper Company, a decree might be entered for the payment of the same, and that the receiver theretofore appointed
niight be removed and a proper and practical person be appointed.receivor in his stead, with power to take possession of
the property, as well as of the books, papers and writings of
the Columbia Straw Paper Company, and that an injunction
issue restraining the officers and directors of the company
from interfering with his possession. The cross-bill was subsequently stricken fiom the files.
Defendants later amended their answer, alleging that the
bonds and mortgage were part of an illegal scheme to create
a monopoly, regulate prices and prevent competition among
the mills purchased, who had, prior to the consolidation, been
in active competition with each other.
The case was referred to a master to take proofs and report
the testimony. He reported that the material allegations of
the bill were sustained by the proofs; that all of the one thousand bonds, set up in the bill, were negotiated and sold and
were outstanding and valid obligations of the company; that
the company made default in redeeming the first one hundred
bonds, maturing December 1, 1893, as well as one hundred and
five 'bonds maturing December 1, 1894; that the company also
made default in the payment of interest upon its bonds due
June 1, and December 1, 1894, though the same was duly demanded; that by reason thereof, and of the execution obtained
by Flanagan, the complainants declared the principal and interest of the entire issue.to be immediately due and payable;
that they hard been requested in writing by the holders of
more than one third of the bonds to enforce the provisions of

DIOKE IAN v. NQRTHERN TRUST COM1PANY.

187

Opinion of the Court.

the deed of trust; that the company had been for.some~time
and was still insolvent; that at the date of the report there
was due upon the-boads, princip~al and interest, $1,249,632.86;
that the contention. -of the defendants; that the b6nds were
not issud and-outstanding, was nbt supported by the testimony; that. the .contention, that the stock of tke company,
which passed into the hands of Emanuel Stein byvirtue of
his contract with the company, was not fully paid-up .tock,
was also not supported, that as a matter of. fact such stock
was received by'Stein as fully paid stock, and that as a matter
of law no question in regard to it between the stockholders of
the company could be inquired into in this proceeding. He
further found that there were no creditors of thecompany
except those represented. in .this suit.
The defendant stockholders, who were complainants in the
cross-bill, filed exceptions to this report,.which, upon a hearing
by the court, were overruled, and a decree of sale nisi entered
in favor of the original complainants. Northern Tiut Co. v.
Columbia Straw Paper,Co., 75 Fed. 'Rep. 936. On appeal
to the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Seventh dircuit the
decree of the Circuit Court was affirmed. 53 U. S., App. 270.
Whereupoa. the appellants applied for and were granted a
writ of icertiorarifron. this court.
Mr. Otto Greshamn and .Mr. John S. Cooyer for Dickerman.
.M,. Louis .Marshallfor the Trust Company. 11r. Charles
A. Dupee and Mr. 3onroe L. WTillard were on his brief.
MR. JusTicn BnowN, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.

This case presents primarily the question whether a minority
of the stockholders of a corporation have a right to intervene
in the foreclosure of a mortgage upon the corporate property
for the purpose of showing that the property was sold to the
corporation by the connivance of the mortgagees at a gross
overvaluation, and to compel the bonds held by them to be

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

subjected to a set-off of their indebtedness to the corporation
for unpaid stock.
It should be borne in mind in connection with the several
defences set up by the intervenors that they- do not appear
here in the capacity of creditors, but as stockholders; that
their rights are the rights of the corporation and must be
asserted and enforced through the corporation, and upon the
theory that the latter has or threatens, by collusion or otherwise, to neglect the proper defence of the foreclosure suit.
-Dodge v. Woolsey3 18 How. 331, 341, 343; .Koehler v. Black
River Falls iJron Co., 2 Black, 715; Bronson v. Za Crosse &c.
Railroad, 2 Wall. 283; -Davenportv. .Dows, 18 Wall. 626;
Dewing.v. Perdicaries,96 U. S. 193; Hiawes v. Oakland, 104
U. S. 450, 460; Greenwood v. .Freight Co., 105 U. S. 13;
Detroit v. Dean, 106 U. S. 537; Cook on Stockholders, §5 645,
659, 750.
There are several preliminary objections made by the
intervenors to this foreclosure which require to be disposed
of before entering upon the proper merits of the case. They
are 1. That the bonds were not due. This in a certain sense is
true. The bonds were peculiar in this respect: There was no
date fixed for their maturity, but there was a provision that
on the first day of December, 1893, and upon the same date
in every succeeding year, the company would redeem a certain number of bonds to be ascertained by drawings made
under the direction of the Northern Trust Company in the
month of November in each year. That immediately after
such drawing the company should cause the numbers of the
bonds drawn for redemption to be published in New York
and Chicago newspapers, and that every bond so drawn should
become redeemable on the first day of December next thereafter. There was no evidence that any such driwing was ever
made, and the Trust Company did not institute their foreclosure proceedings upon the theory that any of the bonds,
by their terms, had matured.
There was, .however, a provision that the mortgage should
become enforcible, if the trustees should declare the princi-

DICKERMAI v. NORTHERN TRUST COMPANY.

189

Opinion of the Court.

pal and interest upon the bonds to be immediately payable,
after any execution should be levied or sued out against the
chattels or property of the company, and such company should
not forthwith, upon such execution being levied or sued out,
remove, discharge or pay the same.
It appears that one James Flanagan, who was a bondholder,
brought suit against the company on January 22, 1895, upon
six coupons. The action appears to have been brought directly or indirectly through the legal firm who were also
counsel of the defendant company. Summons was issued,
returnable January 28, 1895, and served upon the president
of the company at five o'clock P.m. on the day it was issued
(22d). On the same afternoon, the president appeared before
the justice of the.peace ind consented to an immediate trial,
which resulted in a judgment for $180. Execution being
sworn out, it was issued and placed in the hands of the constable it about half-past fiv6 o'clock of the same day. Later
on the same day the trustees gave notice to the-company that
by reason of such execution having been unpaid, they declared
the principal and interest hpon the o&1b thousand bonds'named
and described in the trust deed to be immediately payable, and
upon the same night the trustees took possession of the .property of the company in the vicinity of Cifiicago3 the officers
and agents of the company making no resistance. It- also
appeared that the president of the company had been in consultation with the attorney9 of the trustees about foreclosing
the mortgacge and taking possession of the property, for several days prior to January 22.
Upon this .state of facts the master, tor whom the case was
referred, reported that the contentiorl of the defendants, that
the procurement of 'the Flanagan judgment was the result of
a collusion of the company, was not supported by the testimony.' This was also the opinion both of the Circuit Court
and of the Court of Appeals.
We have no doubt that this judgment was collusive in the.
sense that it was obtained by the plaintiff and consented to
by the defendant company for the purpose of giving the trustees a legal excuse for declaring the principal and interest of

OCTOBER TERM., 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

the mortgage to be due, and to give authority for a foreclosure. But this did not constitute collusion in the sense of the
law, nor does it meet the exigencies of the petitioners' case.
Collusion is defined by Bouvier as "an agreement between
two or more persons to defraud a person of his rights by the
forms of law, or, to obtain an object forbidden by law," and
in similar terms by other legal dictionarians. It implies the
existence of fraud of some kind, the employment of fraudulent
means, or lawful means for the accomplishment of an unlawful purpose; but if the action be founded upon a just judgment, and be conducted according to the forms of law and
with a due regard to the rights of parties, it is no defence that
the plaintiff may have had some ulterior object in view beyond
the recovery of a judgment, so. long as such object was not an
unlawful one. In Xaforri8 v. Tuthill, 72 N. Y. 575, which was
also a suit to foreclose a mortgage, the court observed: "The
facts that the assignor of a mortgage and his assignee acted in
concert with a view unnecessarily to harass and oppress the
mortgagor, and with intent to prevent payment, to the end
that the equity of redemption might be foreclosed, and they
become purchasers for less than the value, do -not constitute
a defence to an action to foreclose a mortgage. So, also, the
the facts that the assignee took title from motives of malice,
and solely with the view to bring an action, and that the assignor assigned from a like motive, and without due consideration, furnish no defence, and do not impeach plaintiff's title.
It is sufficient to sustain the action that the mortgage debt
is due, has been transferred to and is owndd by plaintiff; and
the mortgagor can only arrest the action by paying or tendering the amount due."
If the law concerned itself with the motives of parties new
complications would be introduced into suits which might
seriously obscure their real merits. If the debt secured by a
mortgage be justly due, it is no defence to a foreclosure that
the mortgagee was animated by hostility or other bad motive.
.Davis v. Flagg,35 N. J. Eq. 491; Dering v. Earl of Winchelsea, 1 Cox Oh. 318; AtkMullen v. Ritchie, 64 Fed. Rep. 253,
261; Toler v. East Tenn. &c.Railway, 67 Fed. Rep. 168.

DICKERMAN v. NORTHERN TRUST COMPANY.

191

Opinion of the Court.
Nqow, in this case there is no doubt that Flanagin's claim
was an honest one; that the coupons upon which he brought
the suit were due and unpaid, and there is nothing to show
that he would not have been efititled to a judgment upon
them if the defendant had made a contest. *The company
was notoriously insolvent. Its coupons for 1894 and 1895
were unpaid. All its property was subject to the mortgage
given to secure its bonds. It could no longer continue its
business. Flanagan had a perfect right to bring suit, and
under these circumstances the president of the company was
guilty of no wrong .in consenting to a judgment and to the
immediate issue of an execution. The company was not
bound to defend if there were no defence. The forms of law
were complied with, It would doubtless have been more
seemly if judgment had not been entered until the return day
of the summons, if the execution had not issued until the
expiration of the twenty days allowed by law, and if the
trustees had not been so alert in seizing upon the non-payment
of the judgment as an excuse for declaring the principal and
interest of the bonds to be due. But this haste did not render
the judgment or execution void. If the company had become
insolvent and could no longer carry on its business, it was not
only its legal obligation, but its moral duty, to surrender the
mortgaged property to the mortgagees, in order that the
latter might protect their interests. If the corporation saw
fit to consent to a for6closure, a minority of stockholders cann6t question their right to do so. The fact that the Flanagan
action was undertaken for the purpose of enabling the trustee
to declare the principal and interest due does not invalidate
the proceeding so long as there was a debt due, an action
properly conducted to recover it, and the object to be gained
was not an illegal one.
The reports of this court furnish a number of analogous
cases. Thus, it is well settled that a mere colorable conveyance of property, for the purpose of vesting title in a nonresident and enabling him to bring suit in a Federal court,
will not confer jurisdiction ; but if the conveyace appear to
be a real transaction, the court will not, in deciding upon the

192

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

question of jurisdiction, inquire into the motives which actuated the parties in making the conveyance. -McDonald v.
Smalley, 1 Pet. 620; Smith v. Ker oehen, 7 How. 198; Barney
v. Baltimore, 6 Wall. 280; Farmington v. Pillsbury, 114
U. S. 138; Crawford y. .eal, 144 U. S. 585.
The law is equally well settled that, if a person take up a
bonafide residence in another State, he may sue in the Federal
court, notwithstanding his purpose was to resort to a forum
of which he could not have availed himself if he were a resident of the State in which the court was held. Cheever v.
Wilson, 9. Wall. 108, 123; Briggs v. _French, 2 Sumn. 251;
Catlett v. PacicA Ins. Co., 1 Paine, 594:; Cooper v. Galbraith,
3 Wash. 546; John~on v. .fonell, Wool. S90. So, also, in
cases where a surety attacks a judgment against his principar
upon the ground that it was obtained for the purpose of defrauding him, it must be made to appear either that no debt
existed against the principal, or that the amount was grossly
exaggerated for the purpose of defrauding the surety. Parkhurst v. Sumner, 23 Vermont, 538; -Annett v. Terry, 35 N. Y.
256; -Dougherty's Estate, 9 Watts & S. 189; Thompson'8
Aipeal, 57 Penn. St. 175 ; Willard v. Whitney, 49 Maine, 235;
Pierce v. Jackson, 6 Mass. 2412 ; Great Falls .. fg. Co. v. Wor8ter, 45 N. H. 110 ; Berger v. Williams, 4 McLean, 577 ; Feaster
v. Voodf#ll, 23 Indiana, 493. So, too, it has been held that a
person may purchase stock in a corporation for the very purpose of bringing a stockholder's suit, and that the law will
not inquire into the motive which actuated his purchase.
B-loxam v. .et. Railway, L. R. 3 Oh. App. 337; Seaton v.
Grant, L. R. 2 Ch.'App. 459; Elkins v. Camden & Atlantic
Railroad,36 N. S. Eq. 5.
In this connection it is claimed that the Trust Company
was premature in declaring the principal and interest of the
mortgage to be due, although the mortgage provided that
such declaration might be made if the company should not
"forthwith," upon execution being sued out, discharge or pay
it. It is insisted that the company was entitled to a reasonable time in analogy to certain cases which hold that in
insurance companies the word "forthwith" carries this signifi-

DICKERMAK v. NORTHERN -TRUST COMPANY.

193

Opinion of the Court.

canoe. But "forthwith" is defined by Bouvier as indicating
that "as soon as by reasonable' exertion, confined to the object, it may be accomplished. This is the import of the term.
It varies, of course, with every particular case." In matters
of practice and pleading it is usually construed, and sometimes defined by rule of court, as within twenty-four hours.
Anderson (Law Dict.) says of the word that it "has a relative
meaning, and will imply a longer or shorter period, according.
to the nature of the thing to be done." There are many cases
which turn upon the question whether a person was not too
late in complying with a requirement that a thing must be
done forthwith, but we can recall none where he has been
held in default for doing such act too'speedily, and as the
corporation in this case made no objection to an instant declaration by the trustees that they would treat the principal
and interest of the mortgage as due, it was not within the
power of the appellants to. set up the fact that they acted
with too great haste. It is one of those matters within the
discretion of the directors, and we do not think the appellants
are in a position to impugn their judgment. Railway Co. v.
Alling, 99 U. S. 463, 472; Cook on Stockholders, § 750. Possibly the mortgagor or the unsecured creditors of the mortgagor might have had some reason to complain, but, so far as
the mortgagees are concerned, the action seems to have been
taken in their interest and to have redounded to their benefit.
2. That the bonds were not put in evidence prior to the
deciee of foreclosure and sale. This objection is unsound.
The foreclosure guit was by mortgagees in possession. The
bill averred and the answer of the company admitted the
issue of one thousand bonds of one thousand dollars each, with
the accompanyiung interest coupons, and the answer of the
intervenors admitted that these bonds were issued and certified by the Trust Company, and only denied that all of them
were duly issued, negotiated and sold, and that they were
valid and outstanding obligations. The testimony for both
parties showed that the entire number were certified and
issued by the company, and the master also made a finding
to the same effect. He also found that they were valid
VOL. CLXXVI-13

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.'

obligations of the company, and that there was due thereQn
$1,249,632.86. Given the number of bonds Ind coupons, the
amount due was a simple matter of mathematcal computation..
No furtherproof was required to justify a decree of foreclosure
and sale. Nothing could be gained by an order to produce
the bonds before the master prior to such decree. The complainants were trustees under the mortgage, and had no
,personal interest in the bonds, but held the legal title to the
mortgage, which they were foreclosing for the benefit of
others. This power was expressly given them by the mortgage. It was sufficient to prove that the bonls were valid'
and were outstanding obligations of the company, and it was
not necessary to show in whose hands they were or to require
their production.. Indeed, an order to that effect could only
result in delaying a decree indefinitely, since in cases of corporate mortgages the bonds are often widely scattered, owned
in foreign countries, or by persons totally ignorant that a- suit
for foreclosure is in progress. Months and even years might
be reqjuired to produce them all. The practice has been to
order a decree -for foreclosure and sale without their pro
duction. Gvarante Trust Co. v. Green Cove Railroad,139
U. S. 137, 150; Toler v. East Tenn. 6o. Railway Co., 67 Fed.
Rep. 168, 180.
When, after a sale, the case is referred to a master for proof
of claims against.the proceeds of sale, they must of course be
brought into court for payment and cancellation, and the title
of each holder must, tlen be proved.
3. That the bonds were not negotiable. This objection is
also unsound. The bonds were payable "to the bearer, or,
when registered, to the registered owner thereof;" were declared to be due on or before December 1, 1901, and were
redeemable by annual drawings conducted under the supervision of the Trust Company. It was not known which bonds
it would redeem in any one year, as this was to be determined"
by drawings; but its promise was to redeem all of them before
December 1, 1901. Considering the nature of corporate bonds,
and the difficulty of redeeming so large a, number and amount
upon any one day, we do not think the fact that they were

DICKERMAN v. NORTHERN TRUST COMPANY.

195

Opinion of the Court.

redeemable by instalments, deterfuined by drawings impaired
their negotiability. Promissory notes much more indefinite
as to their time and payment haye been held to be negotiable,
Steven8 v. Blunt, I Mass. 240; Gbodloe v. Taylor, 3 Hawks,
458; Cota v. Buck, 7 Mete. 588; and in Goshn &o. Turnpike
Road v. Hurtin, 9 Johns. 217, it Was held directly "that a
promise in writing to pay a certain sum " in such manner and
proportion, and at such time and place, as he shall from time
to time require, is a Promissory note.
It is at least doubtful whether the fact that these bonds
were or were not negotiable is a .material one; but assuming it to be such, we think they were negotiable .within the
meaning of the law.
4. That the Circuit Court should have allowed the answer
to be arfiended for the purpose of showing that the organization of the defendant company, and the execution of the
bonds and mortgage, were parts of a scheme to form a trust
or unlawful combination in restraint -of trade. After the
answer of the defendant company and'the original answer of
the appellants- who had been adrhitted as defendants by
leave of court -were filed, and all the proofs had been taken,
appellants filed an amendment to their answer, setting up
that the bonds and mortgage were parts of a combination or
trust in restraint of trade, and in direct violation of the act
of Congress of July 2, 1890, "to protect trade and commerce
against unlawful restraints and monopolies," and also in violation of the act of the general assembly of Illinois " to provide
for the punishment of persons, partnerships or corporations
forming trusts, pools and combines, and mode of procedure
and rules of evidence in such cases," approved June 11, 1891.
The answer set out the facts at length, averring that there
were seventy mills engaged in the manufacture of straw paper,
all in competition with each other, and that the company
obtained control of. forty of the mills and operated sixteen.
This amended answer was filed without objection from court or
counsel, and still remains as part of the pleadings in the case.
Prior, however, to this amendment being filed, and on
January 10, 1896, Charles A. Miller filed his petition to be

196

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

made a party defendant and to set up the trust or monopoly
defence. His petition, which sets out with great particularity
his theory of a trust, was with its affidavits and all the testimony in the case submitted to the court, carefully examined
and finally denied.
But admitting everything that can be claimed for the combination in this connection, we do not see: how it can affect
materially the foreclosure of this mortgage. If this were a
proceeding in quo warranto to attack the organization of the
corporation, or an indictment under the statute of Illinois, or
an action against a member of the combination to enforce any
of the provisions of the original contract, the validity of such
contract would become aii important question. But in a suit
to foreclose a mortgage upon the property of the concern, it
is difficult to see how the purpose f6r which the corporation
was originally organized can become a materipl inquiry. So
long as the corporation- existed, it had the power to create a
mortgage, and when that mortgage became due the trustee
had a right to foreclose. This trustee was no party to the
alleged combination, and the fraud, if any existed, was wholly
extrinsic to the mortgage. It would seem a curious defence
if a mortgagor could set up against the mortgage that the
property covered by it was used for an illegal purpose unknown to the mortgagee, as, for instance, gambling, and
therefore thaf the m6rtgage was invalid.
5. That the court erred in holding that the evidence did
not support the contention of the petitioners, that there is a
liability, enforcilile in this cause, against the bondholders
holding stock thaf is not paid for, to the Columbia Straw
Paper Company, amounting to $2,113,000, and which indebtedness should be set off against the indebtedness on each
bond. This proposition involves the real merits of the case.
The gravamen of the petitioners' contention is that the bondholders should be held for the difference between the amount
paid by Stein for the thirty-nine mill properties, namely,
$1,887,000 of stock, and the amount for which he subsequently turned them over to the paper company, namely, four
millions of dollars in stock, the difference being $2,113,000.

DICKERMAIN v. NORTHERI

TRUST COMPANY.

191

Opinion of the Court.

In support of this contention petitioners introduced evidence
of the f6llowing facts;
In October, 1892, there were about seventy straw paper
mills doing business in the Northwestern States, and having a
practical monopoly of the manufacture of straw paper.
Some efforts had been made to combine them in a single
corporation, but they had proven unsuccessful, when, in February, 1892,. the scheme was revived by one Stein, who represented a firm of New York capitalists; certain other
capitalists in Buffalo, who were represented by one Beard,
and still others in Chicago.
As the result of certain conferences between Stein and some
others who had previously endeavored to obtain options, Philo
D. Beard and Thomas T. Ramsdell undertook to obtain options
for the purchase of these mills, to be turned over to a corporation to be organized by Beard and Ramsdell with a capital
stock of $4,000,000. The options did not specify the number of
mills that were to join, although it seems to have been understood that the entire seventy were to be gotten in if possible,
but as a matter of fact Beard and Ramsdell obtained options
upon only thirty-nine. The options show clearly that it was
intended to.turn the properties over to the new corporation.
For thesw properties they agreed to pay $2,788,000, part in
cash ($766,00.0), part in preferred stock ($629,000), part in common stock ($1,258,000) and part in notes ($135,000) of the new
company. The stock payments thus aggregated $1,887,000.
Instead of calling the mill owners together and organizing
a new corporation, Beard and Ramsdell turned over the options to Stein; and articles of incorporation were drawn by a
member of the New York firm under the laws of New Jersey,
which were executed by Beard, one Taylor, a clerk in the
office of the New York firm, and one Heppenheimer, a New
York lawyer residing in New Jersey, each of these subscribing for four shares, aggregating twelve shares out of a total
issue of 40,000 shares. These articles of incorporation were
filed in the office of the Secretary of State on December 6,
1892. The three incorporators met immediately in Hoboken
as stockholders, and elected themselves as directors with six

OCTOBER TERf, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

others, two of whom were memberg of the New York firm,
and the others clerks in their office. Not a single mill owner
who expected to become a stockholder was placed on the
board at this time, although representations had been made
by the syndicate that a majority of the stockholders would be
mill owners. Philo D. Beard was elected president and Samuel
H. Guggenheimer secretary.
Immediately thereafter, and on December 10, 1892, Stein,
who held all the options, assuming to act as an independent
owner, though he had obtained the options for the benefit of
the company, and had promised to pay for them in the stock
of the company, made a proposition in writing drawn by a
member of the New York firm to this board of directors to sell
the thirty-nine mills to the paper company for $5,000,000,
being an advance of $2,113,000 over what he had agreed to
pay for them. This proposition was drafted by the New York
firm, and the stockholders upon the day the proposition was
received had another meeting and instructed thefiselves as
directors to accept. They authorized Beard as president to
enter into a contract with Stein, which was accordingly done.
Stein and wife acknowledged it before a clerk in the offiqe of
the Chicago firm.
This board of directors served for only two weeks, when
they were succeeded by another board composed of Beard,
Stein, Heppenheimer and others mostly in their interest.
For the next month the members of the Chicago firm were
busy in getting the mill owners to deposit their title deeds
and abstracts, but nothing appears to have been said to them
of what had occurred in New York. The New York firm
engaged itself in raising money to pay for -the bonds, and
deposited over $800,000 with the Trust Company, to be disbursed to the mill owners, which money should be checked
out by its personal agent, who proceeded to make settlements
with the mill owners and take over their properties by giving
cheques payable to Stein, who indor.ed them over. Stein
testified that he did not understand the plan, but left everything to an agent to attend to, though it involved Stein paying out one million in cash and four millions in stock. The

DICKERA.AN v. NORTHERN TRUST -COMPANY.

i99

Opinion of the Court.

principal parties in interest did not seem to trust Stein, and
attended to the payment of the purchase price themselves.
It appears that 957 shares of preferred and 4441 shares of
common stock went directly into the hands of Beard; 859
shares of the preferred and. 4357 shares of common stock to
the New York firm; to the friends of this firm 420 shares of
preferred and 840 shares of common stock; to the Chicago
firm, 172 shares of preferred and 515 shares of common; to
a trustee, 1110 shares of preferred "and 2232 sharea of common ; to Stein, himself, 270 shares of preferred and 2377 shares
of common. No .money consideration passed from Stein or
from any of these parties to the company for any of this stock.
It thus appears that the syndicate, received 3788 shares? of
preferred and 14,751 shares of common stock from the treasury of the company, aggregating 18,459 shares of the' par
value of $1,854,900. As it took but $1,887,000 of the stock
at par to acquire the mills, this leaves $258;100 unaccounted
for. This is explained in the testimony of Sherwood, where he
says that this stock went to the promoters and their friends.
Add this $258,100 to the $1,854,900 above stated, and it
amou-nts to $2,113,000, which is the total capitalization of
$4,000,000, less the $1,887,000 that went to the mill owners.
- As thus organized the corporation began business. It raised
the price of paper six dollars a ton, which invited competition,
and a now corporation was, organized by the New York firm
under the laws of New Jersey, called the Paper Commission
Company. The sole function of this company was to sell the
product of the Straw Paper Company, and the other paper mills
which had not given options, the Straw Paper Company payihg
the new company a commission of twenty-five per cent for selling all its paper, reducing the net price realized by the Straw
Paper Company to less than it had obtained when selling its
°
own paper.
The mill owners, although the largest stockholders, never
seem to have been treated as.a factor in these operations,
and in some *ay or other the syndicate got possession of
$2,113,000 in stocks and bonds, which they appeared to have
used in furtherance of their own interests.

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

From this testimony it would appear:
(1.) That the options were to be secured for the benefit of
a corporation to be organized by Beard and Ramsdell, and
that the mill owners were to be paid principally in the stock
of such corporation ;
(2.) That Stein, the successor of Beard and Ramsdell, had
no title personally to the property he pretended to sell, but
that he held it as trustee for the corporation to be organized;
(3.) That the corporation was organized by three parties
who held but twelve shares out of forty thousand shares, one
of the three being a clerk in the office of the New York firm
and the other two acting in their interest;
(4.) That a member of the New York firm drew the proposition by which Stein offered to sell these properties to a
corporation, in which the member himself was the only
responsible stockholder;
(5.) That the owners of the mill properties knew nothing of
the organization of the corporation,or of its acceptance of Stein's
proposition to sell his properties to the Straw Paper Company;
(6.) That the stock was fixed at $5,000,000 upon the idea
that seventy mills would join -in the combination, but as a
matter of fact only thirty-nine joined; that but $2,788,000
was paid for these properties, and that $2,113,000 of stock
was distributed among the parties who got up the corporation
without any distinct consideration being.received;
(7.) That the mill owners received stock which was worth
but one half the value of that which they supposed they
would receive.
Assuming these facts to have made out a case of fraud in
the organization of Ihe Straw Paper Company, and in the
purchase of the mill properties, it is difficult to see how they
affect the validity of the bonds as a whole, the riglt of the
trustee to foreclose, or how they can entitle the complainant
to compel the bondholders, so far at least as they were innocent holders, to set off their indebtedness to the paper company for stock, against the indebtedness of the company upon
the bonds.
The company did, in fact, go through the form of an organ-

DICKER !AN

v. NORTHERN TRUST- COMPANY,

201

Opinion of the Court.

ization under the laws of the State of New Jersey, and while
the first board of directors seem to have been mere tools in the
hands of the New York firm with no real interest in the company, they appear to have conformed to the letter of the law,
and until formally dissolved the corporation had a legal existence. As thus organized it accepted a proposition from Stein
to purchase the mills for $5,000,000, namely, $1800 in cash;
$1,000,000 in bonds; $1,000,000 in preferred stock, and
$2,998,200 in common stock of the paper company, "all of
which," both preferred and commofl, "shall be fully paid and
unassessable, and so expressed on the face of the certificates."
It thus appears that the entire transaction by which the title
of the thirty-nine mills was finally vested in the Straw Paper
Company was accomplished through three distinct transfers:
First, from the several owners of these properties to Beard
and Ramsdell; second, by assignment from Beard and Ramsdell to Stein; and, third, from Stein to the paper company.
It also appears that. when the mortgage was made, the legal
title to the property. was in the Straw Paper Company; and
that, whatever be the circumstances connected with the
organization of the company and the transfer from Stein, it
had the legal right to make this mortgage. The master
found that all of this issue of $1,000,000'in bonds was negotiated and sold, and is now outstanding, and a valid obligation of the paper company; that they are the same bonds
described in the mortgage, and that they are now due and
unpaid. The original options given by the owners of the
mill properties provided that $766,000 should be paid in cash,
and in the facts above stated it appears that a member of the
New York firm engaged himself in raising money to pay for
the bonds, and deposited over $800,000 with the Trust Company to be disbursed.to the mill owners.
The testimony also showed that the bonds were all paid for
in full, and there is no testimony to the contrary. The decree
of the Circuit Court also found that all of the bonds were
duly issued, negotiated and sold, and were outstanding and
valid obligations of the company, and the affirmance of that
decree by the Court of Appeals showed that also to be its

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

finding. A list of the parties to whom the bonds were delivered by the Northern Trust Company upon the request of
the Straw Paper Company shows that nearly all the bonds
were originally issued to Samuel Untermeyer, Philo D. Beard,
John D. Hood, to members of the Chicago firm, and others
more or less connected with the organization of the company.
But the testimony shows that far the larger part of them had
been transferred to other parties, presumably for the purpose
of. raising the $800,000 deposited with the Trust Company.
There is nothing to impugn the good faith of most of these
holdings. It is true that these parties, in disposing of the
bonds, allowed to each purchaser of a one thousand dollar
bond two hundred dollars of preferred and four hundred of
common stock, but they did not seem to have profited by this
themselves. And if it were necessary to the negotiation of
the bonds to give a bonus in stock, it cannot be considered in
the light of a mere donation. Nor, if it were done in good
faith, would it necessarily afford a ground of complaint to'dissenting stockholders. Graham v. Railroad Co., 102 U. S. 148.
Certainly, if this bonus were received in ignorance of the fraud
practised upon the original mill owners, and simply as an inducement to take the bonds, the dissenting stockholders could
not compel the bondholders to submit to a deduction from
their bonds of the par value of the stock received as a bonus,
particularly in view of the fact that the stock might turn out
to be Worthless.
In addition to this, however, the contract with Stein provided that the stock to be issued to him should declare upon
the. face of the certificates to be fully paid and unassessable,
and we know of no principle upon which it can be held that
innocent bondholders can be required to deduct from the face
of their bonds the amount unpaid upon their stock. The very
authorities which hold that the declaration, that the stock is
fully paid and unassessable is not binding up6n creditors, also
hold that the corporation cannot repudiate it and proceed to
collect either from the person receiving the stock or his transferee the unpaid part of the par value. Thus in Scovill v.
T4ayer, 105 U. S.143, 153, in which a similar declaration was

DICKZRM"A

v. NORTHERiN TRVS2 COMTAI Y.

203

Opinion of the Court.

held to be invalid against creditors, it was said: "The stock
held by the defendant was evidenced by certificates of fullpaid shares. It is conceded to have been the contract between him and the company that he should never be called
upon to pay any further assessments upon it. The same contract was made with all the other shareholders, and the fact
was known to all. As between them and the company this
was a perfectly valid agreement. It was not forbidden by
the charter or by any law or public policy, and as between
the company and the stockholders ivas just as binding as if it
had been expressly authorized by the charter."
There is no doubt that, if this were a iuit by creditors to
enforce payment otthe unpaid portion of the stock subscription, the fact that the .stock certificates declared that they
were fully paid ana unhsiessable would be no defence; but it
is a suit of stockholders in the right of the corporation, and as
between the corporation and its stockholders the declaration
that .the shares are fully paid up and unassessable is a valid
one. If an action by the corporation would not lie to recover
the unpaid part of the subscription, then such unpaid part cannot be deducted from the bonds.
Somewhat different considerations apply to those who took
part in the organization of the company, and in the purchase of
the thirty-nine mills, and who received the bonds and stock of
the paper company.with notice of the fraudulent' character
of the scheme. We are not disposed to condone the offences
of those who, through Beard and Ramsdell and their assignee,
Stein, as their agents, purchased these plants for $2,788,000,
and immediately thereafter went through the form of repurchasing of their own agents (in fact, of themselves) the same
properties at $5,000,000.
These men stood in the light of
promoters of the Straw Paper Company. A promoter is one
who "brings together the persons who become interested in
the enterprise, aids in procuring subscriptions and sets in motion the machinery which leads to the formation of the corporation itself." Cook on Stock and Stockholders, gec. 651.
Or, as defined by the English statute of. & 8 Viet. chap.110)
sec. 3, "every person acting,.by whatever name, in the fornm-•

OCTOBER TERI, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

ing and establishing of a company at any period prior to the
company" becoming fully incorporated. See also Lloyd on
Corporate Liability for Acts of Promoters, 17. He is treated
as standing in a confidential relation to the proposed company,
and is bound to the exercise of the utmost good faith. Lloyd,
Corporate Liability, 18; Densmore Oil Co. v. Densmore, 64

Penn. St. 43; Bosher v. Land Co., 89 Virginia, 455. The
promoter is the agent of the corporation and subject to the
disabilities of an ordinary agent. His acts are scrutinized
carefully, and he is precluded from taking a secret advantage
oth4e other stockholders. Cook on Stock and Stockholders,
sec. 651. "Accordingly, it has been held that, if persons start
a company, and induce others to subscribe for shares, for the
purpose of selling property to the company when organized,
they must faithfully disclose all facts relating to the property
which would influence those who form the "company in deciding upon the judiciousness of the purchase. If the promoters
are guilty of any misrepresentation of facts, or suppressioii of
the truth in relation to the character and value of the property, or their personal interest in the proposed sale, the company will be entitled to set aside the transaction or recover
compensation for any loss which it has suffered." Morawetz
on Corporations, secs. 291, 294, 546 ; NSew Sombrero Phosphate
Co. v. Erlanger,5 Ch. Div. 73; Bagnall v. Carlton, 6 Ch. Div.
371; Emma Silver Jining Co. v. Grant, 11 Ch. Div. 918.
"In those cases where the scheme of organization gives the
promoters the power of selecting the directors who are to
represent the company in the proposed purchase, they are
bound to seleot competent and trustworthy persons who will
act honestly in the interest of the shareholders. A purchase
made from the promoters under these circumstances will not
bind the company unless it was a fair and honest bargain."
Mforawetz on Corp. see. 546; The Nrew Sombrero Phosphate
Co. v. -Erlanger,L. iR. 5 Ch. Div. 73; Brewster v. Batch, 122
N. Y. 349; Simons v. YFuleam Oil & Xining Co., 61 Penn.
St. 202 ; Twyoross v. Grant, L. R. 2 C. P. Div. 469, 503;
Whaley Bridge Calico Printing Co. v. Greean, L. R..5 Q. B.
Div. 109, 111; Thompson on Liability of 0. & A. 218, sec. 20.

DIOKERMAN v. NORTHERN TRUST CONTANY.

205

Opinion of the Court.

It is true that the options were taken from each owner of
the thirty-nine mill plants severally, and that no mention was
made of the number that were to be taken into the new corporation. But each option contract showed .that it was the
purpose of Beard and Ramsdell to organize one or more corporations with a capital of one million preferred and three
millions of common stock, and with a bonded indebtedness of
one million dollars. This clause of itself, as well as the whole
scheme of the contract, indicates that a large number of
similar options were to be obtained, and that one or more
large corporations was to be organized to conduct the business. It goes without saying that it never could have been
contemplated that any one'or any small number of these mills,
which were comparatively insignificant affairs, were to be
reorganized with a capital stock of four million dollars. The
oral testimony indicates that it was the understanding that
all the straw paper mills in that section of the country, some
seventy in number, were to be consolidated into the new corporation, and such upon the testimony before us would appear to be the fact. Now, if it were understood by the
owners of these thirty-nine mills, who received in cash and
stock $2,788,000 for their plants, that Beard and Ramsdell,
who held themselves out in the option contracts as promoters
of the new corporation, were to transfer these options to Stein,
and that the latter was to set himself up as a purchaser and
resell these properties to the new corporation for $5,000,000,
it is impossible to suppose that they would have consented to
the arrangement. Bound as these promoters were to deal
fairly and honestly with the stockholders in the new corporation, they were guilty of apparently inexcusable conduct in
excluding the mill owners from all participation in organizing
the, new corporation, putting in their own clerks as directors,
and paying off the mill* owners in stock which was really
of little more than half the value they must have expected to
receive. If they were unable to obtain options upon only
thirty-nine out of the seventy mills, they should have made
known this fact, or at least given these mill owners the benefit
of the surplus stock. Of course, they were entitled to charge

206

" °

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

a reasonable sum for their services and expenses, but the
parties who represented the substantial interests in the new
corporation were entitled to be informed of the steps taken.
We think that no acquaintance with legal principles was necessary to apprise these parties that they were not dealing
fairly with the owners of the mills in concealing from them
the facts connected with this purchase, and in dealing with
the property as if ".they themselves were the only parties in
interest.
It is difficult, however, to see how justice can be done by a
reyersal of the decree appealed from. This is a decree ordering a foreclosure and sale of the property to pay the bonds,
to which the bondholders are clearly entitled. It finds that
all the bonds were duly issued, negotiated and sold, and that
they are outstanding and valid obligations of the company,
and that they are now held by a large number of persons who
'have become the owners thereof for a valuable consideration.
These bonds must ultimately be presented for redeinption
from the proceeds of sale, and we see nothing in the dpcree
appeaed from to prevent an inquiry being, instituted as to
their validity in the hands of their present holders. We are
.clearly of opinion that, so far as they were purchased for a
valuable consideration by innocent holders, they are not subject to the set-off claimed. The question whether, so far as
they are held by parties cognizant of the alleged fraud, they
are subject to a set-off, is not one which properly hrises in this
case, where the bonds must be treated as an entirety, but is a
defence applicable to each individual bondholder. Whether
the-corporation, or those who sue in its behalf, may hold them
liable for the par value of the stock or are confined to a rescission of the transaction, is a question upon -which we express
no opinion.
We are therefore of opinion that the decree offoreclosure and
sale appealedfrom must be afflrmed.
MR."JUSTICE SIRns and MR. JusTIcE PEoxrAm concurred
in the result, but were of opinion that the question of fraud
was irrelevant to the issue.

