OCTOBER TERAM, 1899.
Counsel for Parties.

ALDRICH ,v. CHEMICAL IATIONAL BANK.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SIXTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 58. Argued October 20, 1899.-

Decided March 5, 1900.

H., as vice president of a Cincinnati bank, made application to a New
York bank for a loan of $300,000. The request was granted and that
amount was placed to the credit of the Cincinnati bank upon the books
of the New York bank. Immediately thereafter H. fraudulently caused
himself to be personally credited upon the books of his own bank with
a like sum of $800,000. The action of H. In negotiating the above loan
with the New York bank was unauthorized by the board of directors of
the Cincinnati bank, but after the arrangement had been made that bank
drew out by check the money that had been placed to its credit by the
New York bank and used the same in discharging its valid obligations.
Held, that by so using the money obtained from the New York bank by
H. in his capacity of vice president, the Cincinnati bank became bound
to account for the same as for money had and received, and could not
escape liability to the New York bank upon the mere ground, supposing
it to be true, that it was not permitted by its charter to borrow money.
The fraud perpetrated by H. upon his own bank in having himself personally credited upon its books with the amount of the loan, was a matter with which the New York bank had no connection, and its right to
recover could not be affected thereby. The liability of the Cincinnati
bank rested upon the fact, and the implied obligation arising therefrom,
that that bank used in its business and for its benefit the money which
the other bank placed to its credit in consequence of the loan negotiated
by H. who assumed to represent It.
There Is nothing in the acts of Congress authorizing or petmitting a national
bank to appropriate and use the money or property of others without
incurring liability for so doing.
This case and Western National Bank v. Armstrong, 152 U. S. 346, distinguished.

THE statement -of the case will be found in the opinion of "
the court.
-Yr. FTranies -F. Oldham and 3r1.
-appellant.

John W. Ierron for

2r. George H. Yeaman and 3>. William Worthington, for
appellee. .,. George C. Yobbg was on their brief.

ALDRICH v. CHEMICAL NATIOA.L bANK.

619

Opinion of the Court.

MI.

JUSTICE H-RLA

delivered the opinion of the court.

This litigation has extended over many years and the case
as now presented will be best understood if a statement be
made showing the proceedings in the Circuit Court and Circuit Court of Appeals.
In its bill in this case the Chemical INational Bank alleged
that on the 2d day of March, 1887, it loaned to the Fidelity
National Bank the sum of $300,000 which the latter bank
promised to repay on demand with iiiterest from the date
of the loan and at the same time delivered as collateral security
therefor a certificate of deposit for the above amount together
with sundry promissory notes.
The certificate referred to was in the following form:
This certificate is not subject to
"Certificate of Deposit.
check, but must be presented to draw the money. No. 345.
The Fidelity National Bank. Cincinnati, Feb. 28, 1887. E.
L. Harper has deposited in this bank three hundred thousand
dollars ($300,000), payable to the order 6f himself on return of
this certificate in current funds. $300,000. Ammi Baldwin,
Cashier. Indorsed: ' E. L. Harper."'
It was alleged that the signature of Baldwin as cashier was
used as the signature of the bank by its authority.
The bill then stated that on May 21, 1887, the Chemical
Bank at the request of the Fidelity Bank returned some of
the notes delivered as collateral security anid received in subThe latter notes were destitution therefor other notes.
scribed in a schedule attached to the bill, and it was alleged
that the bank was still the owner and holder of them, except
three executed by X. W. 'Wilshire for $25,000 each which had
been paid at maturity by John V. Lewis, the indorser thereof,
the money so paid being held in lieu of the notes delivered
as collateral secufity for the loan.
After setting- forth the appointment on the 21st day of
June, 1887, of Armstrong as receiver of the Fidelity Bank
as well as the subsequent proceedings by .which on the 12th
day of July, 1887, that corporation was dissolved, the bill,
alleged that the Fidelity Bank never repaid the loan nor any

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

part thereof; that the Chemical Bank presented to the receiver proof of its claim and requested him -to submit it to the
Comptroller of the Currency in order that a dividend might
be paid to it from the assets of the bank equal in ratio to the
dividends paid to other creditors,, and that it might thereafter
receive further dividends until its claim was paid; but that

the Comptroller and the receiver had refused to allow it to
be enrolled as a creditor.
The receiver without explicitly responding to the allegations of the bill as to the making of the loan said that he was
unable to state whether or not the plaintiff loaned to the
Fidelity Bank the sum of $300,000. In an amended answer
he specifically denied that the Chemical Bank loaned to the
Fidelity Bank the sum named, or that any such loan was
made by the former to the latter on the faith and credit of
the alleged certificate of deposit or that such certificate was
and delivered by the cashier of the Fidelity Bank
executed
as its act and
by its authority.
The answer averred that on the second day of March, 1887,
and prior thereto Harper was the vice president of the Fidelity
Bank and engaged in speculations in which he used its funds;
that in the use of those funds he was assisted by Baldwin,
but that such use was not known to the other'directors of the
bank,, was not authorized by it, and was a fraudulent and
illegal appropriation of its funds for the personal use of Harper.; that a-paper was signed by Baldwin, as cashier of the
Fidelity Bank, which was believed to be the same paper
alleged to be a certificate of deposit of the Fidelity Bank;
that such certificate was not entered upon the books of the
bank nor taken from the book from which, if regular, itshould have been taken; that its execution was unknown to
the other officers of the bank and was unauthorized by it,; and
that no consideration was received for it by the Fidelity Bank
from Harper or from any other person nor was money deposited in the bank as the basis of the-certificate.
Continuing, the defendant averred that the certificate of
deposit and the promissory notes described in the bill were
forwarded to the Chemical Bank by Harper, and the sum of

ALDRICH .v. 0HEMICAL NATIONAL BANK.

621

Opinion of the Court.

$300,000 was received by him from that bank; that he represented to the officers of the Fidelity Bank that the money
was received from a loan made to him and by his direction
was credited on his personal account, and was thereupon
drawn out and used for his individual purposes, and that the
other officers of the bank had no knowledge that the facts
were otherwise than as represented by him. It was also
averred thai a large portion of the promissory notes delivered
as collateral security for the loan were the personal property
of Harper in which the Fidelity Bank had no interest.
The answer, after reciting the fact of the payment by the
indorser Lewis of the three notes made by Wilshire for
$25,000 each, alleged that the fourth note of Wilshire .for the
same amount, also indorsed by Lewis, was not presented for
payment by plaintiff at maturity, in consequence whereof
that note was not paid and the indorser was discharged. It
was also averred that the Chemical Bank credited the payment of the above three sums of $25,000 upon the alleged
loan of $300,000, reporting the same 'to the defendant as
payments on that account, and treated them in all respects
as proper credits on such loan. Payment of certain other
notes since the bringing of the action was also alleged to have
been made to the Chemical Bank.
The defendant therefore claimed that the Fidelity Bank was
not liable to the Chemical Bank for the amouut.of the loan,
but if it were otherwise adjudged, the defendant asked that all
payments made to the plaintiff upon the collateral paper forwarded by Harper as security for the loan should be credited
thereon; that the above note of Wilshire, indorsed by Lewis,
not having been paid in consequence of plaintiff's neglect to
present the same for payment, should be also credited; that
the balance of the collateral paper should first be exhausted
and the proceeds credited; and that the plaintiff should be
permitted to prove only the amount found due after such credits had been made.
To the answer as amended the plaintiff filed a general
replication.
In deciding the case the Circuit Court among otner things

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

said: " Conceding that the transaction of the $300,000 loan
was fraudulent as between. E. L. Harper'and the Fidelity Bank
and that he appropriated the entire proceeds to his individual
use, the claim of the Chemical Bank, which dealt in good faith
in the transaction and was innocent of any knowledge or participation in the fraud, is not affected thereby. The negotiation'of the loan was within the authority of Harper as vice
president of the Fidelity Bank, and if he used that authority
fraudulently for his own advantage, the bank that enabled him
to commit the fraud must suffer from the consequences, and
not the bank that made the loan and advanced the money,
under the representition and in the belief that it was conducting a fair, legitimate business transaction with the Fidelity
Bank." But the court held that all collections made prior to
the filing of the claim upon the collaterals held by the Chemical Bank as security for.the loan should be deducted therefrom.
50 Fed. Rep. '798, 802.
From this decision both parties appealed to the Circuit Court
of Appeals. That court reversed the decree, holding upon an
extended review by Judge Taft of the adjudged cases that
creditors of axi insolvent national bank could not be required
i.nfpro'ving their claims to allow credit for any collections made
after the declared insolvency of the bank from collateral securities held by them. 16 U. S. App. 465; 59 Fed. Rep. 372:
The Chemical Bank filed a petition for rehearing upon the
ground that the court had erred in fixing the amount of interest to be allowed the bank on the dividends declared.
While that. petition was under consideration by the Circuit
Court of Appeals, this court decided the case of Wevtern National Bank v. Armstrong, 152 U. S. 346, which related to a
transaction between that bank and Harper. Thereupon the
receiver filed a petition for rehearing, upon the question as to
the validity of the loan involved in the present suit.
The above petitions for rehearing having been granted, the
cause was again heard in the Circuit Court of Appeals and it
was there decided that under the special facts disclosed by the
evidence, and in view of the decision in -Western National
Bank v. Armstrong, the parties should be allowed an oppor-

ALDRICH v. CHEMICAL NATIONAL BANK.

623

Opinion of the Court.

tunity to introduce further evidence "upon the issue whether
the Fidelity Bank owes anything to the Chemical Bank by
virtue of the loan." The former order of the court was therefore modified, and the decree of the Circuit Court was reversed
and the cause remanded, with leave to the parties to adduce
such additional evidence. 31 U. S. App. 75, 83; 65 Fed. Rep.
573, 577.
The cause was again heard in the Circuit Court, which said:
"Upon the evidence, the finding of this court is that the power
of the Fidelity Bank to borrow money by conducting such a
transaction as is involved in this case is established, and that
the same is legitimately within the business of banking under
the National Bank Act." It found for the ChemicalBank on the
issue defined in the mandate of the appellate court. 76 Fed.
Rep. 339, 345, 347. The decree was in these words: "And
the court being now fully advised, finds that the Fidelity
National Bank upon the second day of March, 1887, borrowed
from the complainant the sum of $300,000, and that on the
.lst day of June, 1887, when the Fidelity National Bank was
declared insolvent, there was due from the Fidelity National
Bank to the complainant the said sum of $305,450; that dividends have been declared from the assets of the Fidelity
National Bank to the creditors thereof at the dates and for the
rates per centum, as follows, that is to say: October 31, 1887,
the first dividend of 25 per centum; June 15, 1889, the second
dividend of 10 per centum; June 30, 1890, the third dividend
of 10 per centum; August 5, 1891, the fourth dividend of 5
per centum; August 15, 1891, the fifth dividend of 8 per centurn. The court further finds that upon the 25th day of April,
1890, the defendant rejected the claim aforesaid of the complainant, which had been theretofore presented to him; and
that after the previous decree of this court upon, to wit, the
25th day of July, 1892, said defendant paid to said complainant
the sum of $100,000 upon account of the sum which might be
due to the complainant pursuant to the provisions for that
purpose made in the decree of this court, entered in this cause
on the.8th day of July, 1892. The court finds that there is
now due this 21st day of October, 1896, to the complainant

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

from the defendant the sum of $17,749.78, being the divi,
dends aggregating 58 per centum heretofore declared from
the assets of the Fidelity National Bank, computed upon the
amount of the complainant's claim as herein allowed, with
interest on those of said dividends which were declared prior
to April 25, 1890, froi-h said last-named day, and with interest
upon those thereafter declared from the dates of their declaration, respectively, after crediting the said payment of $100,000,
upon the 25th day of July, 1892, the computation being made
upon the principle ordinarily applied in partial payments.
It is therefore ordered, adjudged and decreed that the defendant pay to the complainant the said sum of $117,749.78, with
interest thereon from said 21st day of October, 1896, and
that hereafter, while any balance remains due the complainant upon said loan, said defendaht pay to complainant dividends, calculated upon said sum of $305,450, like to those
paid to other creditors of the Fidelity National Bank."
The receiver appealed from this decree, and the Circuit
Court of Appeals affirmed the decree of the court below.
The opinion of that court states fully the grounds upon
which it held the case not to come within the rule announced
in Western-NationaZ Bank v. Armstrong, 54 U. S. App. 462; 83
Fed. Rep. 556.
From that decree the receiver has appealed to this court
-the present appellant having succeeded Armstrong.
The principal contention of the appellant is that under the
principles announced in Western NationaZ Bank v. Armstrong
the Fidelity National Bank incurred no liability on account of
the money obtained from the Chemical National Bank. But the
appellee insists that the language of this court in that case,
so far as it relates to the power of a national bank as incidental
to its business to borrow money was much broader than was
necessary for the determination of the issues then before the
court, and if interpreted as is done by the appellant is in conflict with the adjudged cases, inconsistent with sound principle,
and should be modified.
In the last-named case the Western National Bank of
New York alleged that the Fidelity Bank was indebted to

ALDRICH v. OHEN ICAL NATIONAL BANK,

625

Opinion of the Court.

it on account of a loan made May 28, 1887, "at the special
instance and request of E. L. Harper, who was then the vice
president and general manager of the said Fidelity National
Bank, with full authority to make said loan on its behalf,"
and which loan, it whs further alleged, was secured by
collateral, signed by one Gahr and indorsed by Harper, and
by the indorsement and delivery to the Western Bank by
Harper of certificates for 1600 shares of the capital stock of
the Fidelity Bank. It was also alleged that the collateral
was without value and that the stock was wholly invalid
and void. The Fidelity Bank denied that the Western Bank
made any loan to it, or that it had any connection with or
interest in the transaction referred to in the bill. The pleadings and evidence raised'the question whether Harper, in his
transactions with the New York bank, could legally bind the
Fidelity Bank of which he was vice president. This court
said: "It may be conceded that the New York bank acted
upon the theory that the loan was to the Ohio bank, and
took the notes'and certificates of stock as collateral. But
the liability of the Ohio bank is not a necessary consequence
of such a concession. It has further to be shown that the
Ohio bank was really a party to the transaction, either by
having authorized Harper to effect the loan on its behalf,
or by having ratified his action and having accepted and
enjoyed the proceeds of the discount. There is no evilence
whatever that the board of directors of the Fidelity National
Bank gave any authority to Harper to borrow money on
behalf of the bank, much less to borrow so enormous a sum
on so long a time. In this respect the complainant's case
stands barely on the assertion in the bill that 'Harper was
the vice president and. general manager of the Fidelity
National Bank, with full authority to make said loan on its
behalf.' The only evidence we find in the record tending
to support such avermeint is found in the answer by J.
Harvey Waters, the general bookkeeper of the Fidelity
National Bank, on cross-examination, wherein he stated that
E. L. Harper was the vice president and managing officer,
and that by 'managing officer' he meant that Harper was
VOL. QLXX V-40

OCTOBER TER.M, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

the ' general manager of the business of the bank.' No
such officer as that of 'general manager' is known or named
in the National Bank Acts, nor does any such office exist
by. usage.. The most that can be claimed in this case is
that Harper acted as the principal executive officer of the
bank. It cannot be pretended that, as such, he had power,
without authority from the board, to bind the bank by
borrowing $200,000 at four months' time. It might even
be questioned whether such a* transaction would be within
the power of the board of directors. The powers expressly
granted are stated in the eighth section of the National
Bank Act (Rev. Stat. ยง 5136, par. 7): A national bank can
'exercise by its board of directors, or duly authorized officers
or agents, subject to law, all such incidental powers as shall
be necessary to carry on the 'business of banking, by discounting and negotiating promissory notes, drafts, bills of
exchange and other evidences of debt; by receiving deposits;
by buying and selling exchange, coin and bullion; by loaning
money on personal security; and by obtaining, issuing and
circulating notes.' The power to borrow money or to give
notes is not expressly given by the act. The business of the
bank is to lend, not to borrow; to discount the notes of
others, not to get its own notes discounted. Still, as was
said by this court in the case of First Nat. Bank of Charlotte
v. Exchange -rat. Bank of Baltimore, 92 U. S. 122, 121,
'authority is thus given in the act to transact such a banking business as is specified, and all incidental powers necessary to carry it on are granted.' These powers are such as
are required to meet all legitimate demands of the authorized
business, and to enable a bank to conduct its affairs, within
the general scope of its charter, safely and prudently. This
necessarily implies the right of a bank to incur liabilities in
the regular course of its business, as well as to become the
creditor of others. Nor do we doubt that a bank, in certain
circumstances, may become a temporary borrower of money.
Yet Such transactions would be so much out of the course
,of ordinary and* legitimate banking as to require those
making the loan to see to it that the officer or agent acting

ALDRICH v. CHEMICAL NATIONAL BANK.

627

Opinion of the Court.
for the bank had special authority to borrow money. Even,
therefore, if it be conceded that it was within the power of
the board of directors of the Fidelity National Bank to
borrow $200,000 on time, it is yet obvious that the vice
president, however general his powers, could not exercise
such a power unless specially authorized so to do, and it is
equally obvious that persons dealing with the bank are
presumed to know the extent of the general powers of the
officers. Without pursuing this part of the subject further,
we think it evident that Harper had no authority to borrow
this money, and that the bank cannot be held for his engagements, even if made in behalf of the bank, unless ratification
on the part of the bank be shown."
In the view we take of the present case it is not necessary to
extend this opinion by a review of the numerous authorities
which, it is contended, support the general proposition that a
national bank is entitled under the law of its creation and in
the conduct of its business fo borrow money, and that the
lender is not obliged to show that the officer or agent acting
for the bank had special authority to negotiate the loan. If
the present case depended upon that question it might be
necessary to consider whether the language in Western 3ational Bank v. A'rmstrong required modification.
It may be well, however, to observe that this court in Auten
v. United States Bank of - . Y., 174 U. S. 125, 141, 143, held
that the borrowing of money was not out of the usual course
of banking business. We said: "A power so useful cannot be
said to be illegitimate, and declared as matter of law to be out
of the usual course of business and to charge everybody connected with it with knowledge that it may be in excess of
authority. It would seem, if doubtful at all, more like a question of factj to be resolved in the particular case by the usage
of the parties or the usage of communities." It is important
also to observe that the court said that BresternNationalBank
v. Armstrong was not to be regarded as an adjudication to the
contrary.
We may further observe that the last-named case differs
from the -present case in many inpbrtant particulars.

OCTOBER TERiK, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

In Western .2'ationaZ Bank v. Armstrong the defendant bank
did not receive or get the benefit of the money alleged to have
been loaned to it at the instance of its vice president. This
court took care in that case to say that it did "not appear that
the bank ever got a penny of the borrowed money or any
benefit or advantage vhateier by reason of the transaction."
In the present case it appears that the following letter, under
date of February 28, 1887, and signed by E. L. Harper as
vice president of the Fidelity Bank, was addressed to the cashier of the Chemical Bank: "Enclosed herewith we hand you
for credit our certificate of deposit No. 345 for $300,000, with
bills as collateral, as follows: [Here was given a list of twentyseven notes]. We desire to keep a large reserve with you, and
we trust you will make the rate as low as you proposed some
time since. Please place the ambunt to our credit and advise
the rate." This letter having been received by the Chemical
Bank, its cashier wrote to the cashier of the Fidelity Bank under date of March 2, 1887: "Your favor of the 28th inst. has
been received. We credit Fidelity National Bank $300,000,
and shall be considerate as to the rate of interest when
the. loan is paid." Before this last letter could have reached
Cincinnati the bookkeeper of the Fidelity Bank, acting under
instructions from Harper, credited him personally on the books
of that bank with $300,000. But the credit of $300,000 given
to the *FidelityBank on the books of the Chemical Bank
remained unaltered, and that amount was drawn from the
latter bank in the ordinary c6urse of business on the authorized checks of the Fidelity" Bank and went to discharge its
legal obligations. And it may be added that the Fidelity
Bank had notice of the above credit in its favor; for besides
other evidence, it was shown that in the monihly statement
sent by the Chemical Bank to the Fidelity Bank covering the
transactions of'MarcQb, 1887, there appeared under the date of
]iMarch 2d a credit to the Fidelity Bank as follows: "Tem.
loan, $300,000."
We have then a case in which a national bank having used
in its business money which its vice president obtained ts a
loan to it from another national bank denies all liability to.

ALDRICH v. CHEMICAL NATIONAL BANK.

629

Opinion of the Court.
account for the same upon the ground that the loan was not
negotiated by it or by its direction, as well as upon the ground
that it could not itself have legally borrowed the money from
the other bank. Do the statutes relating to national banking
associations require that such a defence be sustained ? This
question is recognized by the court as one of great importance,
and has received careful consideration in the light of the
adjudged cases. We proceed to the examination of those
cases.
In -Merchants' Bank v. State Bank, 10 Wall. 604, 644, in
which one of the questions was as to the liability'of a bank
on account of certain certificates issued by its cashier and of
certain purchases of gold made by him, the court said that
if the certificates and the gold actually went into the bank
which the cashier assumed to represent, then the bank was
liable for money had and received, whatever may have been
the defect in the authority of the cashier to make the purchase.
In .Mrsh v. Fulton County, 10 Wall. 66, 684, it was held
that "the obligation to do justice rests upon all persons, natural and artificial, and if a county obtains the money or property of others without authority, the law, independently of any
statute, will compel restitution or compensation."
In United States v. State Bank, 96 U. S. 30, 36, which
were actions brought in the Court of Claims against the
United States to recover the amount of certain gold certificates deposited in the subtreasury at Boston and forwarded,
after being cancelled, to the Treasurer of the United States,
and'in which transactions fraud was imputed to the cashier
of the subtreasury at Boston, this court said: "In these cases,
and many others that might be cited, the rules of law applicable to individuals were applied to the United States. Here
the basis of the liability insisted upon is an implied contract
by which they might well become bound in virtue of their
corporate character. Their sovereignty is in nowise involved.
Surely it ought to require neither argument nor authority to support the proposition that, where the money or property of an innocent person has gone into the coffers of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

nation by means of a fraud to which its agent was a party, such
money or property cannot be held by the United States
against the claim of the wronged or injured party. The agent
was agent for no such purpose. His doings were vitiated
by the underlying dishonesty, and could confer no rights
upon his principal."
The rule was illustrated in Loui8iana v. Wood, 102 U. S.
,294, which was an action against a municipal corporation to
compel it to repay' money received and paid into its treasury
on account of bonds sold by it but which it had issued without authotity of law. This court held that the law implied
from what was done a contract that the city would return
the money paid to it by mistake. To the same effect is
Chapman v. Dougla8 County, 107 U. S.348, 355 et 8e.
In Parker83urgv. Brown, 106 U. S. 487, 503, it appeared
that the city of Parkersburg, West Virginia, pursuant to an
act of the legislature of that State, issued its bonds to be
loaned to persons engaged in manufacturing and to be secured
by deed of trust or mortgage on real estate. The bonds were
held to be void under the principles announced in Loan A880ciation v. Topeka, 20 Wall. 655, and the question arose whether
the city was bound to account for the property conveyed to
it in trust-to secure bonds so issued and loaned to persons
engaged in manufacturing. This court said: " N otwithstanding the invalidity of the bonds and of the trust, the O'Briens
had a right to reclaim the property and to call on the city to
account for it. The enforcement of such right is not in
affirmance of the illegal contract, but is in disaffirmance of
it, and seeks to prevent the city from retaining the benefit
which it has derived from the unlawful act. 2 Com. Cont.
109. There was no illegality in the mere putting of the
property in the .hands of the city. To deny a remedy to
reclaim it is to give effect to the illegal contract. The illegality of that claim does not arise from any moral turpitude.
The property was transferred under a contract which was
merely malumprohibitum, and where the city was the principal offender. In such a case the party receiving may be
made to refund to the person from whom it has received

ALDRICH v. CHEMICAL NATIONAL BANK.

631

Opinion of the Court.

property for the unauthorized purpose, the value of that which
it has actually received. White v. Franklin Bank, 22 Pick.
(Mass.) 181; J-orville v. American Tract Society, 123 Mass.
129; Davis v. Old Colony Railroad, 131 Mass. 258, 275,
and cases there cited."
In Read v. _Plattsmouth, 107 U. S. 568, 575, where the
question was as to the validity of bonds issued by a municipal
corporation, the court said: "In the present case the statute
in question does not impose upon jhe city of Plattsmouth,
by an arbitrary act, a burden without consent and consideration. On the contrary, upon the supposition that the bonds
issued, as to the excess over $15,000, were void, because unauthorized, the city of Plattsmouth received the money of
the plaintiff in error, and applied it to the purpose intended,
of building a schoolhouse on property the title to which is
confirmed to it by the very statute now claimed to be unconstitutional, and an obligation to restore the value thus
received, kept and used immediately arose."
A case aptly illustrating the principle adverted to is Logan
County Bank v. Townsend, 139 U. S. 67, 74, 78. The facts
in that case were these: Townsend, it was alleged, sold to the
Logan County National Bank, through its cashier, bonds of
a railroad corporation in consideration of a named sum and
the agreement of the bank that it would, upon his demand,
replace the bonds to him at the same price or less. The bank
refused to comply-with the agreement to replace the bonds,
and Townsend sued to recover from it the damages sustained
by him, to "wit,the difference between the price paid by the
bank and the value of the bonds. The bank, in its defence,
denied that it had any connection with the transaction between
Townsend and its cashier otherwise than that the latter having deposited the proceeds in the bank it had paid them to
the plaintiff. Its principal defence was that the cashier as
such had no authority to make the contract set out, and that
the defendant had itself no right, power or authority to make
it. Taking it to be true, as found by the jury, that the
alleged agreement was made by the cashier for the bank and
not upon his individual account, and assuming from the record

OCTOBER TERIN, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

that the bank held the bonds at the time Townsend sued,
this court said: "If it be assumed, in accordance with the
bank's contention, that it was without power to purchase
these bonds, to be replaced to the plaintiff on demand, the
question would still remain whether, notwithstanding the act
of Congress defining and limiting its powers, it was exempt
from liability to the plaintiff for the value of the bonds, if it
refused, upon demand, to replace or surrender them at the
same or a less price. It would seem, upon defendant's theory
of its powers, to be too clear to admit of dispute that the act
of Congress does not give a national bank an absolute right
to retain bonds coming into its possession by purchase under
True
a contract which it was without authority to make.
it is not under a duty to surrender possession until reimbursed
the full amount due it; it has the right to hold the bonds as
security for the return of the consideration paid for them;
but when such amount is returned, or tendered back to it,
and the surrender of the bonds is demanded, its authority to
retain them no longer exists. And from the time of such
demand and its refusal to return the bonds to the vendor or
owner, it becomes liable for their value upon grounds apart
from the contract under which it obtained them. It could
not rightfully hold them under or by virtue of the contract,
and at the same time refuse to comply with the terms of purchase. If the bank's want of power under the statute to
make such a contract of purchase may be pleaded in bar of
all claims against it based upon the contract-and we are
assuming, for the purposes of this case, that it may be- it
is bound upon demand, accompanied by a tender of the price
paid, to surrender the bonds to its vendor. The bank, in this
case, insisting that it obtained the bonds of the plaintiff in
violation of the act of Congress, is bound, upon being-made
whole, to return them to him. No exemption or immunity
from this principle of right and duty is given by the national
banking act.": Ag4in: "Our conclusion upon the whole case,
so far as the questions arising in it may be reviewed by this
court, is, that if the bank had no authority to purchase the
bonds in question, it is yet not exempt, by reason of anything

ALDRICH v. CHEMICAL NATIONAL BANK.

633

Opinion of the Court.

in the national banking act, from liability to the plaintiff for
the difference between the price it paid for them and their
value at the time it refused, upon plaintiff's demand, to comply
with the contract made by it for their purchase and held on
to the bonds."
In Central Tranportation Company v. Pullmans Oar Company, 139 U. S. 24, 60, which involved the validity of a certain
contract whereby one corporation leased and transferred all
its cars, contract rights and personal property to another corporation, and which lease was held to be void, this court said:
"A contract vltra vires being unlawful and void, not because
it is in itself immoral, but because the corporation, by the law
of its creation, is incapable of making it, the courts, while
refusing to maintain any action upon the unlawful contract,
have always striven to do justice between the parties, so far
as could be done consistently with adherence to law, by permitting property or money, parted with on the faith of the
unlawful contract, to be recovered back, or compensation to
be made for it. In such case, however, the action is not maintained upon the unlawful contract, nor according to its terms;
but on an implied contract of the defendant to return, or, failing to do that, to make compensation for, property or money
which it has no right to retain. To maintain such an action
is not to affirm, but to disaffirm, the unlawful contract." This
principle was recognized and enforced in Pullmam's Car Company v. Transportation Company, 171 UT. S. 138, 151, in which
it was said: "The right to a recovery of the property transferred under an illegal contract is founded upon the implied
promise to return or make compensation for it."
In Dittey v. Dominion National Bank of Bristol, 43 U. S.
App. 613, 615, which was an action against a receiver of a
national bank to recover the amount of a loan made by its
president without the knowledge of the directors and for
which he gave the note of the bank -the object of the transaction being to cover up certain frauds of the president -the
court, speaking by Judge Taft, said: "In our opinion, even if
the president may not have had authority to effect the loan,
yet when he, in order to conceal his previous embezzlement,

OCTOBER TERDI, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

deposited the sum to the credit of the Citizens' Bank with its
reserve agent in New York, and it was checked out for the
benefit of the bank, the bank and its board of directors were
affected with the knowledge which Overman as its president
had of the receipt of the moneys. Having received the benefit through an agent, it is affected with the burden of the notice
which that agent had of its reception; and therefore it became
liable for money had and received to its use from the Dominion Bank. We think the same principle applicable in this
case which was applied in the case of Atlantic Cotton Xills
v. Indian Orchard Mills, 147 Mass. 268. In that case the
treasurer of two corporations was a defaulter in both positions. The defalcations were of long standing, and to avoid
discovery at the annual settlement of one company he drew
checks of the other and deposited them to the credit of the
one company in the bank. The question was whether the
company whose bank account had been swelled by the checks
of the other was a debtor to the other for the deposits thus
made by the common treasurer. It was held that the company receiving the money, having received it through the
sole agency of the man who knew it to be stolen, could only
take and hold it with the burden of his knowledge. So in
this case the bank, having received the money through the
agency of its president, could not retain it without assuming
the burden of the president's knowledge as to how it came to
be obtained. We do not see that the circumstance in one case
that the treasurer stole the money and in the other that the
president obtained it on the false representation that he was
authorized to borrow it for his bank makes any reasonable distinction between the two cases."
In Perkins v. Bootdby, 71 Maine, 91, 97, the question was as
to the liability of a joint stock company on account of notes
given by its agent for money loaned and which was appropriated to the payment of the company's debts. The directors
had no knowledge of the loan or the appropriation of the
money, unless knowledge could be implied from the fact that
those acts were done by the agent. The defence was that the
agent's want of authority to effect the loan relieved the con-

ALDRICH v. CHEMICAL NATIONAL BANK.

635

Opinion of the Court.

pany from responsibility not only on the notes but for any
claim under the common counts for money had and received.
After observing that although the directors upon receiving
notice of the acts of the agent in terms repudiated them, yet
after knowledge of the facts retained the benefit of the loans
effected and used the money in discharge of valid claims against
the company which would have been in force except for the unauthorized acts of the agent, the court said: "' If liable in one
case why should not a corporation be always. liable to refund
the money or property of a person which it has obtained improperly and without consideration, or if unable to return it,
to pay for the benefit obtained thereby ? To say that a corporation cannot sue or be sued upon an ultravires arrangement
is one thing. To say that it may retain the proceeds thereof
which have come into its possession without making any compensation whatever to the person from whom it has obtained
them, is something very different, and savors very much of an
inducement to fraud.' Green's Brice's Ultra Vires, 618. The
question whether upon reason and authority the application of
this principle should be extended to municipal corporations, or
whether, on the contrary, the purposes for which such bodies
are organized, the limited powers conferred upon them, as
well as considerations of public policy and safety, may remove
them from such liability, is one of great importance. It does
not arise in this case."
In Bank of Lakin v. National Bank, 57 Kansas, 183, a bank
was held liable for the amount of certain notes executed in its
name by its cashier without its authority, but the proceeds of
which were received by the bank, the court saying that "a
principal cannot receive the benefits of a transaction and at
the same time deny the authority of the agent by whom it was
consummated."
Without further citation of cases we adjudge, both upon
principle and authority, that as the money of the Chemical
Bank was obtained under a loan negotiated by the vice president of the Fidelity Bank who assumed to represent it in
the transaction, and as the Fidelity Bank used the money so
obtained in its banking business and for its own benefit, the

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

latter bank having enjoyed the fruits of the transaction cannot
avoid accountability to the New York bank, even if it were
true as contended that the Fidelity Bank could not consistently
with the law of its creation have itself borrowed the money.
When, as the result of its arrangement with Harper as vice
president, the Chemical Bank credited the Fidelity Bank on its
books with the sum of $300,000 the former thereby undertook
to pay the checks of the latter to the extent of that credit.
And, as already stated, that credit was fully exhausted by the
payment of the checks of the Fidelity Bank drawn in the ordinary course of its business. If the latter bank in this way
used the money obtained from the Chemical Bank, it i under
an implied obligation to pay it back or account for it to the
New Ybrk bank. It cannot escape liability on the ground
merely that it was not permitted by its charter to obtain money
from another bank. Suppose the Fidelity Bank by its check
upon the Chemical Bank had drawn the whole $300,000 at one
time and now had the money in its possession unused? It
would not be allowed to hold the money even if it were without power under its charter to have borrowed it from the
Chemical Bank for use in its business. Or suppose a national
bank, in violation of the act of Congress, takes as security for
a loan made by it a deed of trust of real estate, and subsequently causes the property to be sold and the proceeds applied
in payment of its claim against the borrower, a surplus being
left in its hands, which it uses in its business or in discharge
of its obligations. If sued by the borrower for the amount of
such surplus, could th bank successfully resist payment upon
the ground that the statute forbade it to make a loan of money
on real estate security? Common honesty requires this question to be answered in the negative. But it could not be so
answered if it be true that the Fidelity Bank could use in its
business and for its benefit money obtained by one of its officers from another bank under the pretence of a loan, and be
discharged frDm liability therefor upon the ground that it
could not itself have directly borrowed from the other bank
the money so obtained and used. There is nothing in the acts
of Congress authorizing or permitting a national bank to appro-

ALDRICH v. CHEMICAL. NATIONAL BA_NK.

637

Opinion of the Court.

priate and use the money or property of others for its benefit
without liability for so doing. If the Fidelity Bank did not
itself borrow this money from the Chemical Bank, although
the latter bank in good faith believed that it did, then the
crediting of the former on the books of the latter with $300,000
was a mistake of which the Fidelity Bank was not entitled in
equity and good conscience to take advantage and from which
it should not be permitted to derive profit to the prejudice of the
other bank. So if the Fidelity Bank took the benefit of that
credit with knowledge of all the facts, then its defence is without excuse and immoral. If it innocently availed itself of that
credit without knowledge of the facts, the principles of natural
justice demand that it be held accountable for the money of
another bank which it used in its business without giving any
consideration therefor.
The fact that after the Fidelity.Bank had been credited on
the books of the Chemical Bank with the $300,000, Harper
fraudulently caused himself to be credited on the books
of the Fidelity Bank with a like sum, is a matter with
which the Chemical Bank bad no connection and'cannot affect
its right to demand a return of the money which went (as the
Chemical Bank in good faith supposed it would) into the
treasury of the Fidelity Bank and was by it used in meeting its current obligations. The dishonesty of Harper in his
management of the affairs of the Fidelity Bank did not discharge that bank from the obligation under which it came
by using in its business the money obtained by its vice president under" the guise of a loan to the bank.,
It is no defence to the claim of the Chemical Bank to say
that the directors of the Fidelity Bank were unaware of the
fraudulent acts of Harper. We do not rest our conclusion in
the present case upon any question as to diligence or want of
diligence upon the part of directors. We rest it upon
the fact and-the implied obligation arising therefrom that the
Fidelity Bank used in its business and for its benefit the
money which the Chemical Bank placed to its credit in consequence of a loan negotiated by Harper, who assumed to
represent it.

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

Independently therefore of any question as to the scope of
the power of a national bank to borrow money to be used in
its business, we hold that the Fidelity Bank became liable to
the Chemical Bank by using the money obtained from the
latter, under the arrangement made by Harper in his capacity
as vice president; consequently, the decree recognizing the
claim, of the Chemical Bank for the amount of the loan of
March, 1887, was right.
. 2. It is assigned for error that the collections from collaterals securing the alleged loan prior to the declaration of
dividends by the receiver were not deducted from the amount
of such loan in determining the sum upon which dividends
should be paid to the Chemical Bank, and that the Chemical
Bank was not required first to exhaust its collateral security
and apply the proceeds on its claim before proving it against
the receiver for dividends.
This assignment of error was prepared by counsel prior to
'errill
v. Nrational Bank of Jackthe decision of this court in
sonville, 173 U. S. 131, 135, 146, 147, in which case this court
said that the inquiry on the merits was whether a secured
creditor of an insolvent national bank may prove and receive
dividends upon the face of his claim as it stood at the time
of the declaration of insolvency, without crediting either his
collaterals or collections made therefrom after such declaration, subject always to the proviso that dividends must cease
when from them and from collaterals realized the claim has
been paid in full. It was held that in the distribution of insolvent estates, "the secured creditor is a creditor to the full
amount due him when thq insolvency is declared, just as much
as the unsecured creditor is, and cannot be subjected to a different rule. And as the basis on which all creditors are to
draw dividends is the amount of their claims at the time of
the declaration of insolvency, it necessarily results, for the
purpose of fixing that basis, that it is immaterial what collateral any particular .creditor may have. The secured creditor
cannot be charged with the estimated value of the collateral, or
be compelled to exhaust it before enforcing his direct remedies
against the debtor, or to surrender it qs a condition thereto,

ALDRICH v. CHEMIIAL NATIONAL BAIK.

639

Opinion of the Court.

though the receiver may redeem or be subrogated as circumstances may require." "When secured creditors have received
payment in full, their right to dividends and their right to
retain their securities cease, but collections therefrom are not
otherwise material. Insolvency gives unsecured creditors no
greater rights than they had before, though through redemption or subrogation or the realization of a surplus they may
be benefited."
3. It is also insisted that the Chemical Bank should have
been required to deduct from its claim the amount, principal
and interest, of the note for $25,000 indorsed by J. V. Lewis,
who, it is alleged, was released because of its failure to take
the steps required. by the rules of commercial law in order to
charge him as indorser. Upon this point the Circuit Court of
Appeals, upon the first hearing of this case, said: "Our conclusion upon this main question in the case makes it unnecessary for us to consider the other questions discussed by counsel,
which were material only in view of the position taken by
the court below on the issue just considered. If the Chemical Bank should receive from dividends and collections
payment of debt, principal and interest, now owing to it by
the Fidelity Bank, the question would arise whether it could
not properly be charged with the note for $25,000 which,
through negligence, it failed to collect. It is quite clear,
however, that'dividends declared and to be declared, together
with all collections from collaterals, including as such the
note just referred to, will fall far short of paying the $300,000
and interest due the Chemical Bank on the original debt.
The question suggested, therefore, does not arise on the facts
of the case." 16 U. S. App. 465, 539; 59 Fed. Rep. 372, 382.
We concur in that view.
Having noticed all the questions that require consideration,
Affirmed.
the decree below is

