OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Syllabus.

to it that no advantage accrued to Tennessee creditors over
the Ohio creditors.
It is not within the province of this court to prescribe the
form of a decree to be entered for the distribution of the
assets, in question. But it is both its province and duty to
adjudge, in accordance with the supreme law of the land, as
.we now do, that the plaintiffs in error, citizens of Ohio, are
entitled to share in the distribution of the assets of this insolvent corporation upon terms of equality, in all respects, with
like creditors who are citizens of Tennessee. No decree
giving to the latter privileges or advantages that are denied
to the former is, as we have heretofore adjudged, consistent
with the Constitution of the United States. In the distribution of what is called in the decree "all the rest and residue
of the estate of the Embreeville Freehold, Land, Iron and
Railway Company," or in the proceeds thereof, the plaintiffs
in error should be placed upon the same plane of equality
with Tennessee creditors. The plaintiffs in error cannot be
denied participation in any of the assets of the insolvent
corporation that are taken into account when ascertaining
the rights of the Tennessee creditors and the amounts to be
paid to them on their respective demands. Whatever rule
is applied for the benefit of the latter must be applied in
behalf of the Ohio creditors.
The judgment is reversed, and the cause remanded for such
.furtherproceedingsas may be consistent with this opinion.

50
5201

HOLT v. INDIANA MANUFACTURING COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM

THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES FOR

THE DISTRICT OF INDIANTA.
No. 80. Argued December 19, 20, 1899. -Decided

January 15, 1900.

The reasons for refusing, at October Term 1898, to dismiss this case on the
ground that the appeal to this court was not taken in time, are the same
as those set forth in Allen v. Southern Pacific Bailroad,173 U. S. 179.

HOLT v. INDIANA MANUFACTURING COMPANY.

69

Statement of the Case.
The complaint of the Manufacturing Company that the assessment upon it
of the taxes complained of was illegal, because in effect levied on patents
or patent rights, did not involve the construction, or the validity, or the
infringement of the patents referred to, or any other question under the
patent laws, and was not therefore a suit arising under the patent laws,
and the Circuit Court had no jurisdiction of it on that ground.
The provisions in Rev. Stat. § 629, clauses 9 and 16, § 563, and § 1979,
brought forward from the act of April 20, 1871, c. 22, refer to civil
rights only, and are inapplicable here:
Following United States v. Sayward, 160 U. S. 493, and Fishbackv. Western
Union Tel. Co., 161 U. S. 96, the court holds that the sum of $2000 .
named in § 1 of the act of March 3, 1887, c. 373, as corrected by the act of
August 13, 1888, c. 866, was jurisdictional, and following The Paquete
Habana, 175 U. S. 677, it holds that this is not affected by the fact that
the operation of the act of March 3, 1891,c. 517, was to do away with any
pecuniary limitation on appeals directly from the Circuit Court to this
court

Tmis suit. was brought in the Circuit Court of the United
States for the District of Indiana by the Indiana Manufacturing Company, a corporation organized and existing under the
laws of the State of Indiana, against Sterling R. Holt and
others, taxing officers of Marion County, Indiana, and of a
township in said county, and some others, constituting the
board of review of that county, all of whom were citizens of
Indiana, to enjoin the collection of certain personal taxes for
the years 1892, 1893, 1894 and 1895, assessed upon the capital
stock and tangible property of the dompany. The bill alleged
that the larger part of the assessment made by the taxing
authorities was for the supposed value of certain rights under
letters patent from the United States owned by the company,
and which the company insisted were not subject to taxatidn
by the state authorities; that the capital stock, aside from the
tangible property, represented solely the supposed value of
the letters patent; and that the taxes in respect of the tangible property had been paid by the company. Complainant
charged that the assessment was illegal, unconstitutional and
void, and averred that the suit was instituted "to redress the
deprivation, under color of a law of the State of Indiana, of
a right secured by the laws of the United States, and further,
that it is a suit arising under the patent laws of the United
States."

OCTOBER 't.ERNI;, 1899,
Opinion of the Court.

The Circuit Court entered a decree, ih accordance with the
prayer of the -bill, perpetually enjoining the collection of the
taxes claimed to be due in respect of the capital stock in so
far as the value thereof was der:ved from patent rights or
'letters patent owned by complainant. An appeal was taken,
to the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit and
dismissed by that court for want of jurisdiction. 46 .U. S.
App. 717.
The Circuit Court of Appeals held that the suit was not
one arising under the patent laws of the United States, and
that as the jurisdiction !of the Circuit Court could rest only on
the ground that-the constituti6nal rights of complainant. were
infringed by the laws of the State of Indiana which were
repugnant to and in contravention of the Constitution of the'
United States, an appeal would not lie to that court, and
could only be taken directly to this court under section five of
the Judiciary Act of March 3, 1891.
Thereupon this appeal was taken.
.Mr. William I. Taylor and Mr. John EK. Richards for
*appellants. .r. Hferrill Jioores and -Hrl'. Cassiu8 C. Iladley
were on their brief.
-_Ytr. Chester Bradford for appellee.
MR. CHIEF JUSTIOE FULLFR, after making the above statement, delivered the opinion of the court.

The decree of the Circuit Court was entered in March, 1896,
and the .appeal to 'this court was not taken until somewhat
over one year and six months, though within two years, thereafter. In January, 1898, a motion to dismiss was made on
the ground that section 1008 of the Revised Statutes, giving
two years for the bringing of a writ of error, or the taking
of an appeal, to review the judgments or decrees of the Circuit or District Courts, was repealed by the Judiciary Act of
March 3, 1891. We did not concur in that view, and the
motion was denied, though without an opinion. But in Allen
v. Southern Pacific Railroad Company, 173 U. S. 479,.the

HOLT v. INDIANTA MANTUFACTURING COMANY.

71

Opinion of the Court.

reasons Will be found for our conclusion that the limit of two
years remained unchanged.
In this, as in all cases, if it appears that the Circuit Court
had no jurisdiction, it is the duty of this court to so declare
and enter judgment accordingly.
Complainant rested the jurisdiction on claus es nine, and sixteen of section 629 of the Revised Statutes.
(1.) Section six hundred and twenty-nine provides that
"the Cirduit Courts shall have original jurisdiction as follows: . . ., Ninth. Of all suits at law or i equity arising under the patent or copyright laws of the United States."
The complaint that the assessment of these taxes was illegal
because in effect levied on patents or patent rights, did not
involv.e the construction, or the validity, or the infringement
of the patents "referred to, or any other question under the
patent'laws. This was not, therefore, a suit "arising under
the patent laws,' and the Circuit Court had no jurisdiction on
that grouid.. Dale Tile Manufacturing Company v. Hyatt.
125 U. S. 46; Wood .fowing -Machine Company v. &inner,
139 U. S. 29.3." Wade v. Lawder, 165 U. S.624.
(2.) The sixteenth clause of § 629 reads thus: "Of all suits
authorized by law to be brought by any person to redress the
deprivation, under color of any law, statute, ordinance, regulation, custom or usage of any State, of any right, privilege
or immunity, secured by the Constitution of the United States,
or of' any right secured by anylaw providing for equal rights
of citizens of the United States, or of all persons within the
jurisdiction of the United States."
Similar jurisdiction is conferred upon District Courts by the
twelfth clause of § 563 of the Revised Statutes.
Section 1979 of the Revised Statutes provides: "Every person who, under color of any statute, ordinance, regulation,,
custom or usage, of any State or Territory, subjects, or causes
to be subjected, any citizen of the United States or other person within the jurisdiction thereof to the deprivation of any
rights, privileges or immunities secured by the Constitution
and laws, shall be liable to the party injured in an action at
law, suit in equity; or other proper proceeding for redress."

OCTOBER TERM; 1899.
Opipion of the Court.

All these provisions were brought forward from the act of
April 20, 1871, entitlea "An act to enforce the provisions of
the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution of the United
States, and for other purposes." 17 Stat. 13, c. 22.
Assuming that they are still in force, it is sufficient to say
that they refer to civil rights only and are inapplicable here.
If state legislation impairs the obligations of a contract, or
deprives of property without due process of law, or denies the
equal protection of the laws, as asserted by counsel in respebt
of the statutes of Indiana, remedies are found in the fiirst seetic of the act of August 13, 1888, 25 Stat. 433, c. 866, giving,
to the Circuit Courts jurisdiction of all cases arising under the
Constitution and laws of the United States; and in § 709 of
the Revised Statutes, which gives a review on writ of error to
the judgments of the state courts whenever they sustain the
validity of a state statute or of an authority exercised under
a State, alleged to be repugnant to the Constitution or laws
of 'the United States. Carter v. Greenhow, 114 U. S. 11'[;
Pleaant v. Greenhow, 114 U. S. 323.
(3.) Treating this bill as setting up a case arising under the
Constitution or laws of the United States ,on the ground that
the laws of Indiana authorized the taxation in question, and
were therefore void because patent rights granted by the
United States could not be subjected to state taxation, or
because the obligation of the contract existing between the
inventor and the general public would be thereby impaired,
or for any other reason, the difficulty is that the pecuniary
limitation of over two thousand dollars applied, and the taxes
in question did not reach that amount. And the effect on
future taxation-,of a decision that the particular taxation is
invalid cannot be availed of to add to the sum or value of the
-matter in dispute. New England .Mortgage0o6npany v. Gay,
145 U. S. 123; Clay Center v. Farmers' oan & Trust Company, 145*U.. S. 224; Citizens Bank v. Cannon, 164 U. S. 319.
-The language of the first section of the act of March 3,
1887, as corrected by the act of August 13, 1888, is: "That
the Circuit Courts of the United States shall have original
-cognizance, concurrent with the courts of the several States,

CRUICKSHANK v. BIDWELL.
Syllabus.

of all suits of a civil nature, at common law or in equity,
where the matter in dispute exceeds, exclfisive of interest
and costs, the sum or value of two-thousand dollars, and arising under the Constitution or laws of the United States,;.or
treaties made, or which shall be.made, under their authority. . . ." This was carefully considered in United States
v. ayward, 160 U. S. 493, and it was held that the sum or
value named was jurisdictional, and that the Circuit Cdurt
could not, under the statute, take original cognizance of a
case arising under the Constitution' or laws of the United
States unless the sum or value of the matter in dispute,
exclusive of costs and interest, exceeded two thousand dollars.
That decision was reaffirmed in Fishbak v. Fester . Union
Tegraph Company, 161 .U. S. 96, 99. And the conclusion
reached is not- affected by the fact that the operation of the
act of March 3, 1891, was to do away with any pecuniary
limitAtion on appeals directly from the Circuit Courts to this
court. The Paquete aEabana, 175 U. S. 671.
We are therefore constrained to hold that the Circuit Court
had "no jurisdiction.
Decree reversed, with costs, and cause remanded to -the
Circuit Court with a direction to dismiss the bill.

CRUICKSHAK"

v. BIDWELL.

APPEAL F7ROM THE oi~crr COURT OF THE UN=TE

STATES FOR

THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 282. Argued November 10, 18, 1899.-Decided January 15, 1900.

The mere fact that a law is unconstitutional does not entitle a! party to
relief by injunction against proceedings in compliance therewith, but
It must appear that he has no adequate remedy by the ordinary processes
of the law, or that the case falls under some recognized head pf equity
jurisdiction; and In this case the averments of the complainants' bill did
not justify such an interference with executive action.
The seizure of importations of teas purchased after the alproval of the
act of March 2, 1897, c. 358, entitled "An act to prevent the importation

