OCTOBER TER*, 1899.
Statement of the Case.

LACKAWANNA IRON AND COAL COMPANY v.
FARMERS' LOAN AND TRUST COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE FIFTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 22. Argued March 10, 1899.-Deided January 29, 1900.

The principles announced in Southern Rgailway Co. v. Carneiie Steel Co.,
ante, 257, reaffirmed; but the claims filed in this suit were held not to
te current debts chargeable upon the current receipts of an insolvent
railroad company in the hands of a receiver in preference to the claims
of mortgage creditorS.

THE Houston and Texas Central Railway Company, a cor-,
poration of Texas, formerly owned and operated in that State
several lines of railroad, as follows: From Houston to Denison, a distance of 345 miles, known as the main line; fromo
Hempstead, on the main line, to Austin, a distance of 1181
miles, known as the Western Division; and.from Bremond,
on the main line, to Ross, a distance of 58 miles, known as
the Waco and Northwestern Division: It- also owned lands
donated by the State in aid of the construction of its roads.
Prior to April 1, 1881, the Company had executed various
mortgages or deeds of trust, namely: 1. A mortgage dated
July 1, 1866, covering the main line and ten sections of land
for each mile, known as the main-line first mortgage, inwhich
Easton and Rintoul were substituted trustees. 2. A mortgage
dated December 21, 1870, covering, the Western Division and
ten sections of land for each mile thereof, commonly known
as the Western Division first mortgage, in which the same persons were substituted trustees. 3. A mortgage dated June
16, 1873, covering 'the Waco and Northwestern Division (to
be hereafter referred to as the Waco Division) and also 6000
acres of land for eadh mile thereof, commonly known as the
Waco and Northwestern Division first mortgage, in which
the Farmers' Loan and Trust Company, a New York corporation, was trustee. 4. A mortgage dated- October 1, 1872,

LACKAWANN1A &c. C0.v. FARMERS' LOAN &c. CO.

299

Statement of the Case.

covering the main line and Western Division as a second
mortgage and 3840 acres of land per mile of completed road,
commonly known as the main line and Western Division
consolidated mortgage. 5. A mortgage dated May 1, 1875,
commonly known as the Waco and Northwestern Divisi'n
consolidated mortgage, and covering the Waco Division and
6000 acres -f land per mile of completed road. 6. A mortgage dated May 7, 1877, commonly known as the income and
indemnity mortgage, and covering all the property of the
Railway Company.. 7. A mortgage dated April 1, 1881,
commonly known as the general mortgage, and covering all
the property.of the Company.
The present suit, designated in the Circuit Court by the
number 227, was brought April 6, 1889, by the Farmers' Loan
and Trust Company to obtain a decree of sale of the property
covered by the mortgagp of June 16, 1873, on the Waco Division. On the iame day Charles Dillingham, who was already
receiver and in possession of the railway property of the Houston and Texas Central Company, was appointed receiver of
all the railway property and property covered by the first
mortgage of the Waco Division with power to operate the
same, and was directed to keep separate accounts ol the
expenditures.and earnings of that Division.
During the progress of the cause the Lackawanna Iron and
Coal Company, a Pennsylvania corporation, intervened by
petition, asserting an equitable lien, prior to the" claims of
bondholders, on the mortgaged property for the value of steel
rails alleged to have been furnished by it and laid on the
Waco Division. Subsequently the Pacific I nprovement Company, a California corporation, became t. assignee of the
claim of the Lackawanna Company, and was . %dea coplaintiff with the latter company.
From a report made January 13, 1896, by a special master
appointed to find and report upon the subject-matter of the
intervening petition, the following facts appear:
Pursuant to a written contract' with the Houston .and Texas
Ceutral Railway Company, dated December 28, 1882, the
Lackawanna Company in the year 1883 delivered to the

OCTOBEIR TERM, 1899.
Statement of the Case.

former 5020 tons of steel rails at the price of $40.40 per ton,
in payment for which the Lackawanna Company received ten
promissory notes'of the Railway Company, payable at six
months from their respective dates, amounting with interest
to $206,932.16. These notes were all paid either it their
maturity or at the maturity of other notes given in renewal
thereof.
Pursuant to another contract dated April 26, 1883, between
the Lackawanna Company and the Railway Company, the
former delivered to the latter in the year 1883, 5009 tons of
steel rails dt $39.50 per ton, and received in payment therefor
the Rhilway Company's ten promissory notes dated respectively Juhe 21,.22 and 23, 1883, August 10, 14 and 15, 1883,
and September 6, 11, 15 and 40, 1883, each payable six months
after date, and aggregating, with interest, $201,36.64--the
Railway.Company being entitled, under the contract, to renew
the notes at maturity for a further term of six months by paying the interest at six per cent or adding the interest tothe
new notes. As these notes matured, the payment of so much
of the debt as was not satisfied at maturity was extended until,
in process of settlements and extensions, the Railway Company, in the satisfaction of the balance due the Lackawanna
Company under the contract, executed its eight- promissory
notes payable four months from their respective dates, with
six per cent interest from maturity. These notes aggregated
$118,0,00. In the negotiations resulting in this'settlement the
-Lackawanna Company demanded that the Railway Company
should secure tht renewal notes by the hypothecation of collaterals. In compliance with that demand the Railway Company deposited with the Lackawanna Company, when the
renewal notes were delivered, 170 first mortgage bonds of the
Galveston, Harrisburg and San Antonio Railway Company of
the face value of $170,000. At the date of the master's report;
January 13, 1896, the value of those bonds was $157,250,
or 92 per cent of their face value: They were in the possession of the Pacific Improvement Company, as assignee of the
Iron Company. 1No interest on the bonds had been collected
by the Iron Company or by the Railway Company, but the

LACKAWANNA &c. CO. v. FARMERS' LOAN &o. CO

So1

Statement of the Case.

interest had been collected by the Southern Development
Company. It was agreed before the special master by the
parties in interest that the court should consider the 170
bonds as sold for $157,250 on December 23, 1895, and should
credit that sum, as of that date, upon'the claim of the Iron
Company or of the Southern Development Company.On the 30th day of October, 1883, -'nearly .s&iyears before
the present foreclosure swit was brought, -the LackaWanna
Company and the Railway Company made, another contract
in addition to those above mentioiled, under which the former
delivered to the latter, during the'months of February, March,
April and Mayi, 1884, 8552 tons of steel rails. That contract
was similar iij its:general terms to those of December, 1882, and
April, 1883. It provided for the delivery by the Lackawanna
Company of 10,00 tons of Bessemer steel rails at $36.60 per
ton, as nea.lr, as practicable between February 1 \and August 1, 1884, at the rate of. 1500 to 2000 tons per month. It
also provided that upon the delivery of each 500 tons of rails
payment, should be made therefor either in cash or in the
notes of the Railway Company payable at six months from
the average date of delivery, with six per cent interet from
such date, the purchaser to have the privilege of -renewing the.
-notes before their maturity for a further te m of six months
by paying the interest or adding the same to the renewal
notes. In March and April, 1884, the auditor of the Railway
Company made a statement or voucher of'rails then delivered
under the contract. That statement passed into the hands of
the treasurer of the Railway Company with a memorandum
that notes were to be issued therefor payable at twelve
months from their respective dates. In conformity with that
memorandum the Railway Company executed and sent to the
Lackawanna Company eight notes, payable twelve (instead of
six) months from their respective dates. The latter Compiany
thereupon notified the Railway Company of the error, but thd
notes as executed were received as a matter of accommodation
to the Railway Company,
Afterwards, in April and May, 1884, the Railway Company,
in settlement of the balance due for the 8552 tons of rails,

-802"

2 OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Statement of the Case.

executed and delivered to the Lackawanna Company nine
promissory notes payable at six months from their respective
-dates, with the option in the maker of renewal for a like term.
Each of those notes were renewed for six months for like
amount as the, originals, and their aggregate amount was
$327,175.50. This sum, added to the $118,000 above referred
to, made $445,175.30, the aggregate principal amount due to
the Lackawanna Company, not including the $157,250, the
amounat At which -the 170 bonds delivered as collaterals were
valued.

.

All the rails delivered under the first contract, and about
one half of those delivered under the secofd contract, were
paid for by the Railway Company prior to the appointment
of any receiver of the property; but the remaining half under
the second contract, and the rails furnished under the. third contract, had not been paid- for when the master's report was filed.
The second contract for rails was made one year and ten
months prior to the appointment of the receiver in cause numbered 185 (to be hereafter. referred to), about 'three years
and three months prior to the appointment of the receiver in
consolidated cause numbered 198 (to be presently referred*
to), and about six years prior to the appointment of the
receiver in this cause. The third contract was made about
sixteen months prior to the receivership in cause* 185, about
two years and nine months prior to the receivership in consolidated cause'198, and about five years and six months prior
to the appointment of the receiver in this cause.
A bout 6.2 miles of the railway of the Waco Division (the
part of the railway covered by the mortgage to the Farmers'
Loan and Trust Company) was laid with the rails furnished
under the first two of the above contracts, but it was not
shown what proportion of those rails were furnished under
each ot the contracts; 30.8 miles of the railway w*ere laid
with rails furnished under the third contract. The old iron
rails removed from the 37 miles of the Waco Division, upon
which the above rails were laid -

2960 tons -

were received

by the receivers in cause Nwo. 185, and were sold by them in
1885 at the price of $13 net.

LACKAWANNA &a. CO. v. FARMERS' LOAN &c. CO.

830

Statement of the Case.
The master's report contained the following-:
"I find that the debt for which the Lackawanna Company
claims payment in its petition herein cannot be classed as 'a
current debt made in the ordinary course of business, as thosd
terms seem generally to be understood, yet it appears that
at the time when the contracts hereinbefore mentioned were
entered into between said Lackawanna Company a:d- the
defendant Railway Company that the condition of the track
of the defendant Railway Company was such that the demand
for new rails upon the most worn portion of the roadway was
practically'imperative. For a number of years prior to December, 1882, only about 5000 tons of new rails had been purchased. The road north from Houston for 90 miles was built
in 1857-1861, and thence northward to Denison, 1861-18'T2.
The Western Division leading to Austin was constructed iii
part prior to 1861, and completed in 1873, and the Waco
Division was completed 'about 1875. The condition of these
roads was bad, except such portions as had been relaid with
5000 tons of rails purchased prior to December 28, 1882.
.There was continual breakage of rails and wrecking of trains,
the track was unsafe, and was generally so regarded, not only
by ' railroad men,' but by the travelling public; the 'damage
to merchandise, rolling stock, etc., was continuous, and the
need for new rails appears to have been ' absolutely necessary
as a preservation of human life. the loss of which was liable to"
occur at any moment?
"I find that when the aforesaid contracts wbre made with -the
said Lackawanna Company both seller and buyer expected the
debts to be paid from the net income of the railway; that
the credit extended under said contracts was at the request of
and for the accommodation of the defendant Railway Company and upon its general credit. That said sales were maple
without any stipulation that security should be given by the
defendant company for said rails, or that payment therefor
should be made out of any particular fund or in any particular
way; that said sales were for an unusqally large amount of
rails, and the defendant was unable to pay cash therefor, -and
there was no other way of obtaining said rails except upon

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Statement of the Case.

credit ; and petitioner herein at the time of said contrasts and
sales had knowledge of the mortgage of June 16; 1873, given
by the defendant Railway Company upon the properties of
its Waco and Northwestern Division to secure the; first mortgage bonds, which said mortgage has been herein foreclosed.
1 find that the steel rails supplied by said Lackawanna Company under the aforementioned contracts, 18,581 tons, were
placed in the track of the defendant Railway Company as soon
as received."
The bonded debt of the Railway Company on January 1,
1885, was $16,874,500. The interest on all classes of its bonds
payable in 1894, amounting to $1,194,200, was paid as it matured. The Railway Company first made default in the payinent of interest on its bonds January 1, 1895, on which day
the interest on first mortgage bonds became payable.
The Southern Development Company, a California corporation, on the 16th day of February, 1885, instituted suit ]against
the Houston and Texas Central Railway Company, asserting
a claim against it for about $600,000 for money loaned at vari
ous times. This was cause No. 185. -It set forth in its bill
the enibarrassed condition of the Railway Company, the
danger of its property being scattered, wasted and lost, and
asked that the Company's property be put in the hands of
receivers, and a decree passed directing that out of the rents,
revenues, issues and profits. coming into the hands of the receivers, after payment of costs .of administration, operating
-and other necessary expenses, the claims .of the plaintiff, the
Southern Development Company, with interest and costs be
paid. On the motion of that Company, Clarke and Dillingham were appointed receivers of the property. They immediately qualified a receivers and took possession of the property.
An amended and supplemental bill was filed making Easton,
Rintoul and the Farmers' Loan and Trust Company defendants as trustees of the various mortgages upon the Railway
Company's property. Clarke and Dillingham continued to
act as receivers until about July 10, 1886, when they delivered possession of the property and the revenues in their
hands to Easton, Rintoul and Dillingham who had previously

LACKAWANNA &c. CO. v. FARMERS' LOAN &c. CO.'

305

Statement of the Case.

been appointed joint receivers of the Railway Company under
bills filed by the trustees of certain mortgages on the main line
and Western Division, and' also by the Farmers' Loan and
Trust Company as trustee in the general mortgage of the
Houston and Texas Central Railway Company. The lastnamed litigation was known as cause No. 198.
In cause No. 186 the Lackawanna Company intervened by
petition, and asked to be made a coplaintiff. It prayed that
an account be taken of its several demands, that the amount
thereof with interest be paid out of the netxeve'ues of the Railway Company, and be declared a lien thereon and upon all the
property of the Company-superior. in rank to the claims of
the trustees and to the mortgage bonds and coupons issued
under their various deeds of trust.
To the bill of the Southern Development Company, Easton
and Rintoul, trustees, demurred generally and specially. The
demurrer was sustained, and the bill and supplemental bill
were dismissed with costs on the 27th day of :May, 1886, but
without prejudice to the'rights of the complainants to assert
their claims, if any they had, in such manner as they were
advised. By the same decree Clarke and Dillingham were
discharged and ordered to turn over all the property and
effects of the Railway Company together with its accrued
revenues in their possession to Easton, Rintoul and Dillingham,
who had then been appointed joint receivers of the Railway
Company under an order made in the "Consolidated Cause
No. 198,1" Easton and Rintoul, Trustees, and the Farmers'
Loan and Trust Co. v. Houston and Texis Central Co. et al.
- the constituent suits of such consolidated cause being causes,
Nos. 198,, 199 and 201, which were bills of foreclosure against
various parts of the railway.
The three mortgages Oclared on in causes 198, 199 and'.201
were duly foreclosed by final decree entered in t]te consolidated cause on the 4th day of Iay, 1888, and on September 8,,
1888, 'all the property of the Railway Company was sold under that decree, George E. Downs becom ing the .purchaser of
the Waco and Northwestern [Division, subject, however, to
the particular mortgage sought in this suit to be foreclosed,
VOL. cLxxvI-20

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Statement of the Case.

namely, the mortgageof June 16, 1873, known as the Waco
Division first mortgage, the Farmers' Loan and Trust Company being the trustee therein. The sale was also made
subject to the right which the court reserved by the decree
(to use the words of the master in his report) to charge upon
the property or any part thereof the payment of any amount
that might be found to be due and payable by reason of intervening petitions theretofore filed in that cause and be entitled
to priority over the mortgage debts referred to in the decree.
From February 20, 1885, to the date of the report, the
property' of the Railway Company, forming thesubject-matter
of the receivership in this cause, was continuously in the
possession of the court under proceedings in suit No. 185,
and thereafter in suits Nos. 198 and 227.
The master found and reported that no interest had been
paid on the bonded indebtedness by either of the receivers in
this cause,; that Alfred Abeel, receiver in this cause, had
expended under the orders of the court $46,505.40 for betterments and permanent improvements from December 10, 1892,
to September 3, 1895, consisting of bridges, shops, roundhouse,
car shed, water stations, locomotives, chair car and fencing;
that no part of the income arising from the operation of the
road aid no part of the proceeds of sales of old rails, old iron,
old cars and engines, coming into the possession of the receivers in causes 185 and 198, ever came into the possession
of the receivers in this cause, and it did not .appebr that any
part of the equipments purchased by the receivers in causes
185 and 198 ever came into the possession of the receivers
in this cause; that the evidence failed to show that any
improvements and betterments of the property, added to the
property of the Houston and Texas Central.Railway Company
-by the receivers in causes 185 and 198, were made on the Waco
Division; that prior to April 6, 1889, no separate accounts
were kept of the receipts and disbursements of the Waco
Division, but the same was operated as a branch of the general
system of the Houston and Texas Central Railway Company,
and the evidence failed to show what, if any, of the expenditures made by the receivers in causes 185 and 198 for extraor-

LACKAWANNA &c. CO. v.FARMERS' LOAN &c. CO.

307

Statement of the Case.

dinary repairs, betterments and. improvements, and for operating and running expenses, were made for the Waco Division
and what portions for other divisions of the Houston and
Texas Central Railway Company, and this was true also as
to receipts and income; that the receivers in cause 185 had
on hand in cash at the opening of business on January 21,
1886, $175,393.65, but it.did not appear that any part of that
fund came to the hands of the receivers in this cause- and
that the receiver in cause 198 had on hand at the begidfning.
of business on April 6, 1889, cash amounting to $215,842.45,
but it did not appear that any part of that sum came to the
hands of the receivers in this cause.
'The mortgage given by the Railway Company to the
Farmers' Loan and Trust Company, dated June 16, 1873, and
herein declared on, contained the following provisions:
" And in case the said Houston and Texas Central Railway
Company shall fail to pay the principal, or any part thereof,
or any instalment of the interest, or any part thereof, on any
of the said bonds at any time when the sanie shall become
due and payable according to the tenor thereof, and for sixty
days after' having been demanded, it shall be competent for
the said trustee, its successors or assigns, to enter upon the
said railway and the premises and, property herein conveyed,
by its attorneys and agents, and take possession of the same
without let-or hindrance of the said first party, and every part
and parcel thereof, and the 'Appurtenances, and appoint an
agent to operate and manage the same, and receive the revenue and income thereof, applying the said funds, after deducting taxes, necessary expenses and counsel fees, to keep the same
in good order and repair, and the surplus to pay the principal
and interest of all the bonds which may be due and outstand.
ing, and secured herebypro rata, and thereafter, to the payment
of any contributions due to the sinking fund herein established.
And upon the request of the holders of one fifth in amount of
the bonds,so in default which may be at any time outstanding
under this deed of trust, it shall be the duty of said second
party, by its president or agent duly appointed in its, behalf,
to enter upon and take actual possession with or without entry

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Statement of the Case.

or foreclosure of said railway and property'herein described,
and all and singular each and every part and. parcel thereof,
and assume its management until the arrears of- both principal and interest be paid, or the property sold, as herein prescribed, receiving the rents, revenues and income thereof, and
applying them in the same manner as above -stated. It is,
however, expressly agreed that the said party of the first part
may dispose of the current net revenues and income of all the
said property and railway hereby conveyed in such manner as
it shall deem best, until default shall be made in the payment of
the interest or principal of said bonds, or of any one or more
of them, and shall have the right to sell and dispose of any of
such real estate or other property as it may own or acquire,
which may not be needed or recuired for the purposes and
business of the said Waco and Northwestern Division, except
in the case of the six thousand acres per mile of completed
road, and which sale and conveyance of such outside property
shall transfer the said property and title free from incumbrance of this mortgage or deed of trust, and to change its
tracks and make any and all alterations necessary for the benefit of the. same."
That mortgage contained no provision authorizing the
trustee, if it acquired possession of the railway under that
instrument, to pay any floating debt or debts of the mortgagor company out of the gross earnings of the railway.
During the receivership of Clarke and Dillingham, in cause
185, they received revenues from the operation of the railway,
from February 23, 1885, to January 21, 1886, $2,758,487.40,
and paid out for operating expenses, taxes, etc., for the same
period, $2,137,322.44, leaving a surplus of $621,164.96. From
January 21 to 'July 10, 1886, they received $1,143,731.05,
and paid out for operating expenses during the same period
$.1,341,753.85, leaving a deficit for that period of $198,022.80,
but leaving a net balance from the operation of the railway
from February 23, 1885, to July 10, 1886, of $423,142.16.
When Clarke and Dillingham took possession of the property
of the Railway Company on February 23, 1885, they received
in cash $30,416.3 , while they collected for traffic balances

LACKAWANNA &c. CO. v. FARMERS' LOAN &c. CO.

309

Statement of the Case.
and other claims $118,730.08, from sales of old rails on hand.
February 23, 1885, $110,275, and from sales of old -cars $6500,
making a total of $965,921.42.
Clarke and Dillingham during the time they were in possession of the property as receivers, and Easton, Rintoul and
Dillingham while they were in possession as receivers, expended
under the orders of court the following sums outside of operating expenses.,: $23,274.20 for liabilities of the R~ailway Company; $751,438.15, interest on first mortgagebonds of the
Company due January 1 to July 1, 1885; $245,T93.64 for
new steel rails;' $125,695.44 for car trust notes; f265,696.33 '
for new passenger coaches, baggage, mail and express cars,
locomotives, etc.; and $126,218.62 for right of way, fencing
track, real esiate, depot, round-house, foundry and patternhouse; in all, $1,536,116.38, of which $384,026.20 was expended under the receivership of Clarke and Dillingham.These were the receipts and expenditures up to January 9,
1888, and there was no evidence as to receipts and expenditures after that date.
Easton, Rintoul and Dillingham during their receivership
realized out of proceeds of sale or collection of old assets of
the defendant company the sum of $135,889.70.
The receivers in cause 198 received from the receivers in
cause 185 the sum of $138,751.37 in cash.
The receivers in the consolidated cause 198, after taking.
possession -i July 10, 1886, paid liabilities of the receivers,
Clarke and Dillingbam, taxes, outstanding vouchers, pay rolls,
traffic balances, $221,421.32, and collected from the amount
due Clarke and Dillingham as receivers in cause 185 the sum
of $39,016.69.
'On the 26th day of November, 1886, the Lackawanna Company filed its petition of intervention in cause 198, praying
substantially for the same relief aga'inst all the railways,
revenues, earnings, moneys and other properties and-assets
of the defendant company, including those forming the subject-matter of the receivership herein, as was prayed for by
its petition of intervention in this cause. Upon that petition
the master reported in that cause that under the facts the

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Statement of the Case.

debt for which the company filed its petition was of. a character equitably entitling it to be discharged in preference to
the mortgage represented in that suit, but which preference
should be applicable to so much only of the company's debt
as should remain unsatisfied after exhausting the 170 first
mortgage five per cent bonds of the Galveston, Harrisburg
and San Antonio Railway (Mexican & Pacific extension) of
the face value of $170,000, and which, as heretofore stated,
were pledged as security. The Farmers' Loan and Trust
Company filed exceptions in that cause to the master's report,
but at the date of the master's report in this cause the exceptions had not been brought to a hearing.
The Lackawanna Company on the 30th day of April, 1889,
filed suit upon its claims against the Houston and Texas Central Railway Company in the District Court of Dallas County,
Texas, a court of competent jurisdiction, and in that suit, after
due citation, judgment was rendered against the railway company May 19, 1899, for $555,914.25 with interest. Upon that
judgment execution was issued and was returned August 20,
1899, no property found subject to execution.
Of the interest paid by the receivers on the first mortgage
bonds of the defendant railway company, $79,800 consisted
of coupons upon the first mortgage bonds of the company
secured by mortgage upon the Waco Division, being the
property forming the subject-matter of the litigation hdrein.
Interest was paid upon the coupons representing the same,
maturing January 1 and July 1, 1885, to the amount of $11,571,
making a total amount of interest paid to holders of bonds
secured by mortgage on the Waco Division of $91,371, paid
May 1, 1887.
During the years 1883 and 1884 the defendant company
paid $2,386,400 interest upon its bonds, which amount, less
$1,043,198.27, borrowed for interest purposes in those years,
was presumably (the contrary not appearing) paid from its
income or current earnings, and out of said total the sum of
$159,600 was paid as interest upon the first mortgage bonds
of the W~co Divisibn, the bonds which are the subject-matter
of the bill of coniplaint in'this cause. During 1883 and 1884

LACKAWANINA &c. 00. v. FARMERS' LOAN &c 'CO.

311

Statement of the Case.
$2,225,000 approximately were expended from the earnings
and general income of the defendant company's property in
the payment of interest on bonds and in additional equipments, permanent improvements, etc.
The accounts of the railway company were not kept in
such manner as to indicate the exact fund out of which the
interest on the first mortgage bonds of the Waco Division
was paid, or the exact fund out of which the interest upon
the bonds of the other divisions was paid; and no separate
account was kept of the earnings of that division as distinguished from the net earnings of the other divisions of
the railway company, either prior to or during the receivership thereof, until about April 20, 1889. During the receivership in cause 198, the receivers expended in the payment of
interest upon the bonds forming the subject-matter of the bill
of foreclosure herein the sum of $91,371.
By a final decree rendered March 16, 1892, the Circuit
Court made in this cause a decree of foreclosure and sale in
behalf of the Farmers' Loan and Trust Company. The decree
contained these among other provisions:
"And the purchaser or purchasers of said property at said
sale shall, as a part of the consideration' of the purchase, and
in addition to the sum bid, take the property upon the express
condition that he or they will pay off, satisfy and discharge
any and all claims and interventions now pending and undetermined in this court, accruing prior to the appointment of
the receiver herein or during the receivership, which may be
allowed and adjudged by this court as prior in right to complainant's mortgage, together with such interest as may be
allowed; and also upon the further express conditions that he
or they will pay off, satisfy and discharge all debts, claims
and demands of whatsoever nature incurred or which may
hereafter be incurred by said receiver Charles Dillingham,
and which have not been or shall not hereafter be paid by
said receiver or other parties in interest herein; and said
purchaser or purchasers, their successor or. successors, or
assigns, shall also have the right to appear and make defence
to any claim, debt or demand sought to be enforced against

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Statement of the Case.

said property; and said purchaser or purchasers, their successor or successors, or assigns, shall also have the right to
appear and make defence to any claim, debt or demand pending and undetermined at the date of the confirmation of such
sale...
.
"1And-it is further ordered, adjudged and decreed that it be
recited in the deed to be executed and delivered to said parchaser or purchasers, that he or they do take said property,
subject to, and that said purchaser or purchasers do assume
and agree to pay off any and all debts, claims and demands
of whatsoever nature now 'pending and undetermined, and
which may be allowed and adjudged by this court, as prior to
any right secured under complainant's mortgage, and subject
likewise to all debts, claims and demands of whatsoever nature
incurred by Charles Dillingham as receiver in this cause, and
which may remain unpaid at the termination of said Dillingham's receivership, provided the same be presented, as hereinbefore provided, -within six months after the confirmation of
said sale. It is further ordered, adjudged and decreed that
the- rights of the Lackawanna Coal and Iron Company, the
Southern Development Company, the Pacific Improveiaent
Qompany and the Morgan's .Louisiana and Texas Railroad
and Steamship Company, intervenors herein, and the rights
of all other intervenors herein, be and they are hereby
reserved to be hereinafter adjudicated, and are in no inanner
affected or prejudiced by this decree. It is further ordered
that the disposition of any surplus funds arising from the
earnings of the road, or otherwise, that may be in the hands
of the receiver, is reserved for future determination."
Subsequently, February 26, 1896, a decree was passed in
this cause dismissing the intervention herein by the Lackawanna Iron and Coal Company and the Pacific Improvement
Company, but without prejudice to the rights of those companies under or by virtue of the intervention in equity
cause 198.
This order was affirmed in the Circuit Court of Appeals.
52 U. S. App. 91. The case is now here on certiorari for
reexamination.

-

LACKAWANNA &o. CO. v. FARMERS' LOAN &o. CO.

313

Opinion of the Court.

-Mr. Z aawell JEvarts -and XrM.E. B. Kruttschnitt for the
Lack wanna Iron and Coal Company, appellant.
Mi. Herbert B. Turner for the Farmers' Loan and Trust
Company, appellee. -M. Z F. Jkott was on his brief.
Mr. L. W. Campbil
McHarg, appellees.

for Moran Bros. and Henry K.

MR. JUSTICE. HARNi

, after stating the above facts, delivered
the opinion of the court.
In Southern Railway Co. v. Carnegie Steel Co., ante, 257,
just decided, we had occasion to consider in ,the light of our
previous decisions the principal questions arising in the present case. We need not repeat here what was said in the
opinion in that case as, to the general principles applicable in
cases involving the respective rights of mortgage creditors
and of unsecured creditors in the earnings of an insolvent railroad corporation in the hands of a receiver.
The above statement of the history of this litigation shows
that the Houston and Texas Central :Railway Company had
three contracts with the Lackawanna. Company for steel rails;
that those contracts were made, respectively, on December 28,
1882, April 26, 1883, and October 30, 1883 ; and that all the
rails delivered under the first contract, and about one half of
those delivered under 'the second contract, were paid for, leaving unpaid"for one half of the rails delivered under the second
contract and all delivered under the third contract. But the
claim for the balance due for rails covered by the bontract of
April 26, 1883, is abandoned because, as stated by counsel for
the Lackawanna Company, it is impossible to state with certainty how many of the rails delivered under that contract
Were actually used on the Waco Division. We are tberefore
only concerned in this case.with- the contract of October 30,
1883, under which rails were delivered.
It also appears that in suit No. 185, brought by the Southern Development Company in February, 1885, receivers were

OCTOBER TERM., 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

appointed of the entire property of the Houston and Texas
Central Railway Company, including the Waco Division; that
that suit was dismissed in May, 1886, and shortly before that
time suits were brought by the trustees of the mortgages on
the main line and on the Western Division of that company
for the foreclosure of those mortgages, receivers were appointed
and the suits were consolidated as Consolidated Case 198; that
in'the latter cause the entire property was sold September 8,
1888, subject, however, to the first mortgage on the Waco
Division; and that the Waco Division was separately sold
subject to the first mortgage thereon.
Subsequently, September 6, 1889, the present suit was
brought to foreclose the first mortgage on the Waco Division. The Lackawanna Company interivened herein by petition, asking that an account be taken of the amounts due to
it, and for a decree "declaring that the sums so due are liens
upon the net earnings of said Railway Company, and especially upon those portions of said net earnings which have
accrued or may accrue from the railways described in the bill
of complaint in this cause, both those accrued prior to said
receivership in said cause No. 185, and those accrued and to
accrue during the receivership in said cause No. 198, extended
to this cause, and upon all of the property of said railway company, superior in rank to the claims of said trustee and of the
mortgage bonds and coupons issued under the deed of trust
sought to be foreclosed in this cause;" and "that the net
earnings of the railway described in the bill of complaint in
this cause in the hands of said receiver, accrued or to accrue,
be first devoted to the payment of the accounts so decreed,
and if they be not sufficient prior to the final decree in this
cause to pay said amounts, then that your honors do decree
the payment of said amounts out of any proceeds of sale of
the property of said Railway Company to be made under said
final decree, the amounts so decreed to your petitioner to be
paid in preference. to any amount due under the mortgage
bonds and coupons issued under the deed .of trust annexed to
the bill of complaint in this cause."
The principal ground upon which the Lackawanna Coin-

LACKAWANINA &c."CO. v. FARMERS' LOAN &c. C0.

315

Opinion of the Court.

pany bases its claim for the relief asked is that when each of
the above contracts were made the Waco Division was in such
condition that new rails were imperatively required in order
that the road might be safely used for the transportation of
persons and property. Such, it may be assumed, was the con.
dition of the road when the rails were contracted for and
delivered, for it was so found by the master to whom the
intervening petition of the Lackawanna Company was referred
with direction to take the account prayed for and to report
the facts, and to that report no exceptions were filed. But the
necessary inference from the report in connection with the
averments of the intervening petition is, that the work required
to be done in order to put the main road of the Houston and Texas Central Railway Company and its divisions in
proper condition was not such as would be done in the ordinary course of the business and operations of a railroad, but
was so extensive as to amount to reconstruction, or the construction of new road. That was the view expressed by the
Circuit Court of Appeals, and it explains what the, master
meant by the finding that the debt for which the Lackawanna
Company claimed payment could not be classed as a "current
debt made in the ordinary course of business." This court
has uniformly held that in the distribution of the current earnings of an insolvent railroad company, whose property is being
administered by a receiver, mortgage cr~ditors could not be
postponed to unsecured creditors, unless the-debts due the latt
ter were of, the class known as current debts arising in the ordinary course of business and properly chargeable upon current
receipts. The decision in each case has been more or less controlled by its special facts. But we are of opinion that such
expenditures as those incurred in the making of the contracts
with the Lackawanna Company were not such as are haade in
the ordinary course of the operations of a railroad, and cannot
be deemed current debts within the rule that a railroad mortgagee when accepting his security impliedly agrees that the
current debts of a railroad company contracted in the ordinary
course of its business, in order to keep it a going concern, shall
be paid out of current receipts before he has any claim upon,

OCTOBER TERIM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

such income. Southern Railway Co. v. Carnegie Steel Co.,
ante, 257, and authorities there cited. They are rather to be
regarded as extraordinary expenditures, outside of the ordinary course of business and incurred for purposes not of repair
but of construction. This court has said that it is the exception, not the rule, that the priority of mortgage liens can be
displaced. Xneeland v. American Loan & Trus8t Co., i36
U.' S. 89, 98; Thomas v. Western Car Co., 149 U. S. 95, 111.
We have said that priority of unsecured claims is recognized
only in a few specified cases in which equity and good conscience require that the vested liens of mortgage creditors
shall be postponed in the application of current earnings to
current .debts. Sound principle forbids that a court of equity
should imply an agreement upon the part of mortgage creditors to subordinate their claims to such debts as those due to
the Lackawanna Company. To so hold would place their
rights at the mercy of the railroad company having charge of
the property upon which their recorded liens rest. Besides,
the rails in question were delivered long before the railroad
company had made any default. in the payment of interest;
about sixteen months before the company's property was .put
into the hands of a receiver, and. about five and a half years
before the appointment of a receiver in this cause. Then there
is the circumstance that the Lackawanna Company, during
the negotiations resulting in the execution of renewal notes
under the second contract for rails, demanded and received
collateral security to a large amount from the railroad company -a circumstance tending to show that it did not regard
itself as entitled to an equitable claim upon net earnings in
preference, to mortgage creditors, but relied upon the general
credit of the railroad company. 1owdver meritorious the
claim of the Lackawanna Company may be as bitween it
and the railroad company, we cannot by reason of anything
appearing in the rbcord impair or displace the liens of mortgage creditors for. its benefit. Under all the circumstances,
including the amount of the debt and the long.period of credit,
the claims in question must be regarded as general unsecured
debts, not contracted in the ordinary course of bhsiness, and

UNITED STATES- v. PARKHURST-DAVIS CO.

317

Statement of the Case.
with the expectation of the parties that they were to be met
out of current receipts in preference to claims of mortgage
creditors. It is not therefore entitled to the priority claimed.
The view taken of the case by the Circuit Court of Appeals
is indicated by Judge Parlange, whose opinion, on behalf of
that court, thus concludes: "The unusually large purchase of
rails, the time within which they were to be delivered, the
condition of the road, the contracts providing for notes at six
months renewable for a like term at the maker's option, the
hypothecation of securities for the payment of the claim,
the knowledge which the intervenor had of the mortgage,
the fact that the contracts contained no promise to pay out of
any particular fund, the time which elapsed between the date
of the contracts and the appointment of a receiver in cause
No. 185- are circumstances which, taken together, cannot
fail to convince us that the intervenor relied upon the general
credit of the railway company."
The decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals is therefore

Affr~hed.

UNITED

MERSTATES
.
&PRKIIURST-DAYIS
CANTILE COMPANY.

APPEAL FROM THE cIRCUrr COUT

OF THE UNITED STATES FOI-

THE DISTRICT OF KANSAS.
No. 180.

Submitted January 81, 1900. -Decided

February 26,1900.

This case comes within the provision of Rev. Stat. ยง 720 to the effect that
no writ of injunction shall be granted by a court of the United States to
stay proceedings in any court of a State except in matters of bankruptcy.

ON August 21, 1897, the United States filed their bill in
the Circuit Court of the United States- for the District of
Kansas seeking an injunction restraining defendants from
enforcing in .the courts of the State of Kansas certain claims
against Eli G. Nadeau and John Nadeau, members of the

