OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Statement of the Case.

where such statute or authority is alleged to be repugnant to
the Constitution or the laws of the United States. Columbia
Watei Power Co. v. Columbia Street Railway &c. Co., 172
U'. S. 475. In the case under consideration the right to a
trial by jury is claimed under the Constitution of the United
States; but as it was never set up or claimed prior to the
decision of the Supreme Court of the State, it is too late to
raise the question here.
The fact that the defendant did set up in his plea in abatement his immunity from prosecution upon an information of
the county attorney, clearly appears, .but we are not at liberty
to consider other constitutional questions which might have
been involved, if they had been properly set up and claimed.
The observations of this court in Dewey v. Des .foine8, 173
U. S. 193, are conclusive against our consideration of this
question.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of the State of Nebraska is therefore
.4frmed.
MR. Jus=IC

RAuLb

dissented,

NEW ORLEANS v. WARNER.
PETITION FOR LIMETED REHEARING OF THE CASE REPORTED IN
175 U. s. AT PAGE *120.
No. 172. Distributed November 29, 1899. -Decded

January15, 1900.

The decree heretofore entered in this case is vacated, and a new decree is
"entered nun opro tuno as of March 13, 1899, affirming the decree of the
Circuit Court of Appeals in all respects.

THIS case was argued March 13, 1899, was decided November 13, 1899, and is reported in Volume 175 U. S., beginning
on page 120. The judgment of the court was expressed as
follows:
Our conclusion is that the decree of the Court of Appeals
be modified in respect of the date from which interest is to

NEW ORLEANS v. WARNER.
Statement of the Case .

be calculated, and as so modified affirmed, with costs of -this
court equally divided, and that the case be remanded to the
Circuit Court for the Eastern District of Louisiana with a
direction to comply with the decree of the Court of Appeals
as modified, and it is so ordered.
The petition for a rehearing was as follows:

-

To the .onorable, te Supreme Court of the United States:
The undersigned, with respect, desire to make the following
suggestion in the nature of a petition for a limited rehearing
herein, with a view to the correction of what we think is an
error as to the date from which interest is allowed by the
court in this suit.
In the courts opinion it is declared, and it is the fact, that
both the statutes and the warrants provide that said warrants
shall bear-interest at the rate of 8 per cent per annum "until
paid," and that it was the opinion of the court that complainant was entitled to that rate of interest from November 26,
1894- the date of filing the bill and issuance of the subpcena.
This date from which interest is to begin we think is an error,
because the contract -both the said drainage warrants and
the statute under which they were issued-fix in unmistakable terms the date on whi6h the interest is to begin to run,
to wit, from the date of the presentation of the warrant to
the administrator of finance, June 6, 1876, of which presproof was made.
entation
. ir8t. full
The statute under which the sale and purchase
was
made, act of the Legislature No. 16 of the sessions of 18-76,
approved February 24, 1876, provided:
"That all amounts to be paid, when agreed upon, shall be
paid in drainage warrants by the city of New' Orleans, which
said warrants shall be issued in the same form and manner as
those heretofore issued to the transferee of the said company
under Act No. 30 of Acts of 1871, for work done.""
And Act No. 30 of 1871, in the 8th section thereof, after
providing for the measurement of the work to .be done, by an
engineer to be appointed, and the certification of the amount
thereof, further -provided:

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Statement of the Case.

"It shall be the duty of the administrator of accounts,
on the presentation to him of the said certificate of the city
surveyor or other engineer appointed by the board of adifinistrators, by the president of the said Mississippi and Mexican
Gulf Ship Canal Company, to draw a warrant or warrants
on the administrator of finance, in payment of the work so
done, at the rate of fifty (50) cents per cubic yard of excavation,'and fifty (50) cents per cubic yard for protection levee,
the said warrants to be of such denQmination as may be
required by the president of said company. These warrants
it shall be the duty of the administrator of finance to pay
on presentation to him, in case there be any funds in the
city trea.sury to the credit of said Mississippi and Mexican
Gulf Ship Canal Company; but should there not be sufficient
funds t6 cash the said warrant or warrants, then the administrator of finance is hereby required to indorse upon the
same the date of presentation, after which date the said warrant or warrants shall bear interest at the rate of eight per
cent per annum until paid, which condition shall be set forth
in the form of the said warrant or warrants."
Second. And the warrants in suit provide as follows:
DEPARTmENT OF PUBLIo ACCOUNTS.,
No. 379.
NEw OREAws, June 6, 1876.
$2000.00
To the Administrator of Finance, City of 1New Orleans.

O-inDixcE 3539, A. S.

Pay to the order of W. Van Korden, transferee of Mississippi and Mexican Gulf Ship Canal Company, two thousand
dollars out of any funds in the city treasury to the credit of
said company.
This warrant is issued in accordance with the provisions of
Act 30 of the session of the General Assembly of the State
of Louisiana, held in the year 1871, and the administrator of
finance, on presentatibn to him of this warrant, will pay the
same in cash, in case there be any funds in the city treasury
to the credit of the said Mississippi and Mexican Gulf Ship
Canal Company; but should there not be sufficient funds to
cash this warrant then the administrator of finance is required

NEW ORLEANTS v. WARNER.
Statement of the Case.

to indorse upon the same the date of presentation, and this
warrant shall bear interest at the rate of eight per cent per
annum from and after the date of such presentation and
indorsement until -paid.
Charge Mississippi and Mexican Gulf Ship Canal Company.
(Signed) J. G. BnowN,
Administrator of Accounts.
Presented for payment June 6, 1816.
(Signed) E. PiLSBURRY,
Administrator of Fiiance.
(Indorsed) W. "VY

NROBDE,

Tran8feree.
See Record, p. 109.

And this warrant (a specimen copy of the -others sued on,
see agreement, page 213 of Record), together with the acknowledgment of -presentation by said administrator of
finance on the 6th day of June, 1876, was duly offered in
evidence In the Circuit Court, as will fully and conclusively
appear from complainant's note of evidence taken down by
the clerk of said Circuit Court, in open coutt, to be found on
page 205 of this record, item 2d, at-the bottom of said page,
which reads as follows:
2d. Complainants offer in evidence the drainage warrants
sued in this case Nqos. -, together with the presentation of
said warrant at the b6ttom of-each.
And thus interest at 8 per cent per annum from June 6,
1876 (date of presentation), until paid, was specially set up
and prayed for in an amendment to the bill of complaint,
duly allowed by the court. See Record, pp. 184: and 185.
We therefore submit, that it is perfectly clear that interest,
under the contract of the parties, is to be computed from the
date of presentation of the warrahts on June 6, 1876, and
that such presentation for payment was made on that date,
is proved by the warrant itself and the indorsement of presentation thereon, and there is not even an intimation of any
proof to the contrary, or any absence of the proof here contended for.

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Statement of the Case.

And that te holders of drainage warrants are entitled to
interest at 8 per' cent per annum from June 6, 1876, has
been decided as follows:
The suit of Peake v. NAew Or7le-an., 139 U. S., p. 342, was
' based on a judgment at law rendered on warrants issued under
the same statute, where interest was allowed at 8 per cent
per annum from the date of presentation, -and this court, at
page 349 of said report, said this judgment was undoubtedly
correct.
A like judgment at law was rendered on warrants of James
Jackson, where interest was allowed from June 6, 1876
(date'of presentation for paytnent to said administrator of
finance).. See the record of this case, pages 360 to 363.
And like judgments at law have been rendered on warrants
of the same class here sued on allowing interest from the date
*of said presentation until paid.
And in the efforts of holders of drainage warrahts to .collect
the same, they have alviays been diligent. Recoid, pp. 114,
122, 126 (still pending and undisposed of by agreement of
counsel), 142, in addition to protracted litigations in the state
courts.
The matter of the date from which interest was to be computed was not specially considered in our *brief, because appellant (petitioner) made no complaint as to this part of the
decree, the assignment of error merely setting .up want of
power in the city to make any, contract for interest. We
perhaps should have noted the date of demand of presentation with. more particularity in our brief. We submit, however, that the decree should be amended so as to allow the
interest complainant is entitled to, and he prays that a limited
rehearing be granted and. that the decree entered may be
amended so as to allow interest from June 6,-1876.
Respectfully submitted,
RhHAmnD DE GRAsY,
J. D. RousE,
WILLIAM GRAXT.

Solioitorafor. Complainant and Re~ondent.

THE NEWFOUNDLAND.
Syllabus.

We certify the foregoing petition is in our opinion well
founded and is not made for the purpose of delay.
RwH~n DE GnAy,
WILLIA GRANT.
-Yr.Richard De Gray, Xr.William Grant and .Mr. ..D.
Rouge filed a brief supporting the petition.
Samuel I. Gilmore and 3fr. 'Branch K Xiller, solicit-

.r.

ors for the city of New Orleans, filed an opposing statement.
MR.

JUSTICE BROWN delivered the opinion of the court.

On motion for a reheariug upon briefs filed, and upon an.
affidavit of the death of the petitioner, John G. Warner, on
March 21, 1899, it appearing in -this case that the court
overlooked the fact that the drainage warrants, which formed
the basis of this suit, were duly presented for paymn.t on
June 6, 1876, it is .

Ordered that the decree heretofore entered in thi8 case P,
and is hereby, vacated and set aside, and that a new
* decree be entered nunc pro tune as of 3farch 13, 1899,

afflrming the decree of the 'Circuit Court of Appea78 in
all repects.

-THE NEWFOUNDLAND.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE 'UNITED STATES FOR
THE DISTRICT OF SOUTH CAROLINA.
No. 156. Argued November 8, 6,1899.-Decided January 15,1900.

The question In this case is as to the adequacy of the proof offered on
behalf of the Government and the captors to show that the Newfoundland was trying to violate the blockade of Havana, and the court is of
opinion that it does not attain to that degree which affords a reasonable
assurance of the justice of the sentence of forfeiture in the court below
- that It raises doubts and suspicions and makes probable cause for the
capture of the ship and justification of her captors, but not forfeiture.
VOL. CLXXVI-7

