BENEDICT v. UNITED STATES.

357

Statement of the Case.

BENEDICT' v. UNITED STATES.
A2Pp EAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
1o.405. Argued January 15,1900. -Decided

February 26, 1900.

Extra compensation received by a District Judge for holding court outside
of his own district is no part of his official salary, or recoverable as such
under the provisions of the retiring act.

THIs was a petition by the late District Judge for the Eastern District of New York, for his retiring salary, under Rev,
Stat. ยง 714, at the rate of $6800 per annum, which the petition
avers was the salary which was by law payable to him during
the year prelious to his resignation. The petitioner acknowledges the payment of $5000 and claims a residue of $1800, to
which he avers himself to be justly entitled.
Upon hearing the case and upon the consent of. parties, the
Court of Claims found the following facts:
"First. The petitioner, Charles L. Benedict, is a citizen of
the United States, 'of lawful age, and resides at Dongan Hills,
Staten Island, in the uity of New York, anid State of New
York.
"Second. In the month of April, 1865, the petitioner was
duly appointed by the President of the United States Judge
of the District Court of the*United States for the Eastern
District of New York.
"Third. The petitioner duly entered on the, duties of his
office, and duly performed the same until the year 1897, during
which, and on or about the 20th of July, 1897, he resigned his
office, having then held his commission as judge of said court
for more than ten years, and having attained the age of 70
and upward.
"Fourth. Since the passage of the act of February 7, 1873,
the petitioner has held, under the provisions of that act and
the Revised Statutes, to wit, sections 613 and 658 of the
Revised Statutes,' the six terms of the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Southern District of New York, referred

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

to in said statutes, in every year, and has received for holding
each of said terms the sum of $300; the same being paid to
him by the United Staies marshal for the Southern District of
New York, pursuant to sections 613 and 597, Revised Statutes.
"Fifth. That the same was paid upon a voucher in substance as follows:
(Omitted.)
"The total amount thus paid annually to the plaintiff was
$1800.
"Sixth. That such payments to the petitioner by the marshal were from time to time allowed in the marshal's accounts
and paid to him out of the alppropriations for defraying the
expenses of the courts of the United States.
"Seventh. During the year previous to the petitioner's resignation he received the said $1800 for that year, in accordance
with the provisions of -sections 613, 597 and 658, Revised
Statutes, as above set forth, and also the salary df $5000, payable to him, as provided by the act of Congress of February
24, 1891, 26 Stat. 783, out of the appropriation to pay the
salaries of District Judges of the United States.
"Eighth. During the year since his resignation petitioner
has only received as salary the sum of $5000, which sum- has
been received by him without prejudice to the claim which he
makes in this proceeding.
"Ninth. The petitioner presented to the auditor of the
State aand other departments a bill for the amount of his salary
claimed by him.herein to be remaining due and unpaid, and
made claim on the anlitor for the payment of said bill, but
the auditor refied to audit or approve the said bill, and no
parit of the said $1800 has been paid to him."
The petition was dismissed, (34 0. 01. 388,) and petitioner
appealed to this court.
Mr. Robert . Benedict for appellant.
.X,. Aee'wtant Attorney GeneraZ Pt'adt for appellees.
MR. JUsTIcE BRoww, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.

BENEDICT v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

By Revised Statutes, sec. 714, "when any judge of any
court of the United States resigns his office, after having held
his commission as such at least ten years, and having attained
the age of seventy years, he shall, during the residue of his
natural life, receive the same salary which was by law payable to him at the time of his resignation."
In April, 1865, petitioneF was appointed by the President,
Judge of the District Court of the United States for the
Eastern District of New York, and served as such until July
20 1897, when he resigned his office, having then held his
commission for over thirty years, and attained the age of
seventy years and upwards. The salary. of all District Judges
was fixed by the act of February 24, 1891, c. 287, 26 Stat. 783,
at the rate of $5000 per annum. There is no question made
but that petitioner was entitled to this amount, and that it
has been paid him.
The controversy arises over the proper construction of the.
act of Febru'ary 7, 1873, reproduced in Rev. Stat. ยง 658 and
613. By section 658 it is enacted that "the regular terms of
the Circuit Courts shall be held in each year, at the times and
places following: . . . in the Southern District .of New
York, at the city of New York, . . . exclusively for

the trial and disposal of criminal cases, and matters arising
and pending in said court, on the second Wednesday in January, March and May; on the third Wednesday in June, and on
the second Wednesday in October and December; " and by
section 613 it is provided that "the terms of the Circuit Court
for the Southern District of New York, appointed exclusively
for the trial and disposal of criminal business, may be held by
the Circuit Judge of the Second Judicial Court (Circuit) and
the District Judges for the Southern and Eastern Districts of
New York, or any one of said three judges; and at every such
term held by said judge of said Eastern District he shall receive
the sum of three hundred dollars, the same to be paid in the
manner now prescribed by law for the payment of the expenses
of another District Judge while holding court in said district."
The facts are that, after the passage of this act of February
7, 1873, petitioner held each year the six terms of the District

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

Court of the United States for the Southern District of New
York, referred to in the statute, and received for holding each
of said terms the sum of $300, amounting in all to $1800 per
annum. Petitioner now insists that this was a part of the
salary which was by law payable to him at the time of his.
resignation, within the meaning of the retiring act, see. 714,
and should, therefore, be added to the $5000 per annum
admitted to be due him.
The case in reality turns upon the meaning of the word
"salary," as used in section 714. The word "salary" may
be defined generally as a fixed annual or periodical payment
for services, depending upon the time and not upon the
amount of services rendered. Tnompson v. Phillips,12 Ohio
St. 617; Landis v. -Lincoln County, 31 Oregon, 427; Dane v.
Smith, 54 Alabama, 49; State v. .fuphy, 24 Florida, 33;
Castle .ir. Lawler, 47 Conn. 345; Commonwealth v. Butler, 99
Penn. St. 542. As applied to District Judges in general, and
indeed to every District Judge except the Judge of the Eastern
District of New York, it doubtless refers to the salary of
$5000 fixed by the act of Fbruary 24, 1891. Such salary is
an annual stipend, payable in sickness as well as in health,
for duties much more onerous in some districts 'than in others,
and regardless of the fact whether such duties are performed
by the Judge in person, or by. the Judge of another district
called in to take his place. It is a compensation which cannot be diminished during the continuance of the incumbent
in office, and of which he cannot be deprived except by death,
resignation or impeachment.
Wholly different considerations apply to the compensation
provided for by section 613. To entitle the Judge of the
Eastern District of New York to the $300 per term, provided
for by that section, it is necessary that the term be actually
held by him, when he is paid for his services in the manner
-provided by law for'the expenses of a District Judge holding
court in another district than his own. He may hold but
one term a year, for which he would receive $300. He may
hold three terms, for which he may receive $900, or he may
bold the entire six terms and receive $1800. Such compensa-

THE ADULA.
Syllabus.

tion is i variable quantity, dependent upon the number of
terms held by the Judge. Upon the theory of the petitioner,
if he had held but one term during the year previous to his
resignation, he would be entitled to but $300 in addition to
his regular salary of $5000. The fact that he was able to
hold the entire number of six terms for the twenty-four
years preceding his resignation is a tribute to his industry,
faithfulness and capacity, as well as to his good health, but
it does not affect the question in a legal point of view. This
compensation was not only for services actually performed,
but was subject to be diminished or taken away at the will
of Congress. It was something entirely distinct from the
salary paid to him as Judge of the District Court for the
Eastern District of New York, but was in fact, as was
held by the Court of Claims, extra pay for extra work performed-for particular as distinguished from continuous
services.
We are all of opinion that the judgment of that court was
Affrmed.
right, and it is therefore
MR. JUSTICE MoKENNA.

did not sit in this case.

THE ADULA.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT couRT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE SOUTHERN
1o. 167.

DISTRICT OF GEORGIA.

Arguea November 7, 1899. -Deelded :February 26,1900.'

A legal blockade may be established by a naval officer acting upon his own
discretion, or under direction of superiors, without govprnmental -notification.
In view of the operations being carried on for the purpose of destroying or
capturing the Spanish fleet at Santiago de Cuba, and the reduction of that
place, it was competent for the Admiral commandingthe squadron to establish a blockade there, and at Guantanamo, as an adjunct to such operations,
and such blockade was valid as against all vessels having notice thereof.
It appearing that Guantanamo was eighteen miles from the mouth of Guan.

