OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Statement of the Case.

UNITED STATES v. TENNESSEE AND COOSA RAILROAD COMPANY.
-

APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE FIFTH
CIRCUIT.
o. 58. Argued December 12, 13,1899. -Decided February 5, 1900.
The grant of public land made to the State of Alabama by the act of June
3, 1856, c. 41, to aid in the construction of railroads, to be subject to the
disposal of the legislature for the purposes named in the act and no other,
with a provision that if any of said roads were not completed within ten
years the lands remaining unsold should revert to the United States, was
a grant in prwsenti; the condition so expressed was a condition subsequent; and the rightsand powers of the State continued until the grant
should be directly forfeited by judicial or legislative proceedings.
The provision in the act of September 29, 1890, c. 1040, that "there is hereby
forfeited to the United States, and the United States hereby resumes
the title thereto, all lands heretofore granted to any State or to any corporation, to aid in the construction of a railroad opposite to and coterminous with the portion of any such railroad not now completed and
in operation, for the construction and benefit of which such lands were
granted, and all such lands are declared to be a part of the public
domain," did not operate upon lands opposite completed roads, and such
lands were not thereby forfeited or resumed.
The allegation that the sale to Carlisle was without consideration and colorable was not sustained by the evidence.
Although the bill was framed to secure a forfeiture of the entire grant, that
does not preclude a forfeiture for a part of it.

Tnis suit was brought under the act of September 29, 1890,
c. 1040, 26 Stat. 496, to forfeit a land grant made to the State
of Alabama in aid of the construction of a railroad from the
Tennessee River at or near Gunter's Landing to Gadsden, on
the Coosa River, conveyed by the State to the Tennessee and
Coosa Railroad Company.
The bill alleges that Congress by the act of June 3, 1856, c.
41, 11. Stat. 17, granted to the State of Alabama in trust for
certain railroads, of which the respondent, the Coosa Railroad,
was one, every alternate odd-numbered section for six sections
in width on each side of the road, with the right of selection

UNITED STATES v. TENNESSEE & COOSA R'D.

243

Statement of the Case.

of others if rights had attached to such alternate se'ctions,
within fifteen miles of the line of the road, as follows:
"That a quantity of land not exceeding one hundred and'
twenty sections, for each of the roads named in said act, and
included within a continuous length of twenty miles of each of
said roads named therein, may be sold, and when the Governor of Alabama should certify to the Secretagry of the Interior
that any twenty continuous miles-of any of said roads -were
completed, then another quantity thereby granted, not to
exceed one hundred and twenty sections for each of said roads
having twenty continuous miles completed as aforesaid, and
included within a continuous length of twenty miles of each
of said roads, may be sold -and so from time to time until
said roads were completed, and if any of said roads were not
completed within ten years, no further sales should .bemade,
and the lands unsold should revert to the United States."
That the State accepted the grant by an act of its legislature
approved January 20, 1858, upon the. terms and conditions
expressed in the adt of Congress, and granted a portion of the
lands to the Coosa Railroad.
That the railroad constructed ten and 22-100 miles of road
along the line of definite location of survey, to wit, from
Gadsden northward toward Gunter's Landing, but did not
construct any portion thereof prior to June-3, 1866, and never
constructed or completed twenty miles of railroad prior to
September 29, 1890.
That by virtue of the act of Congress all the lands unsold
at the expiration of ten years from its date reverted to the
United States, and that the railroad company did not sell any
lands prior to June 3, 1866, and never became entitled to any
of the land or to the possession thereof, but that the railroad
company selected the lands described in the bill within the
six-mile limit and those within the fifteen-mile limit, which
selections were approved by the Secretary of the Interior.
Exhibits were attached to the bill giving detail descriptions.
That the selections and approval were made upon the filing
of a map of definite location and not upon the certificate of the
Governor of the State showing that twenty continuous miles

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Statement of the Case.

of road had been constructed, for no section of twenty miles
had been constructed before the passage of the act of Congress
of September 29, 1890.
That the United States became entitled to the possession
of the lands on the 4th of June, 1866, and the right to recover
both the title to and the possession of them.
That by the act of September 29, 1890, the United States
resumed the title to all the lands which were opposite to and
coterminous with any portion of such railroad not completed
and in operation at the date of the passage of the act; anl
that none of the lands described in paragraph 1 and Exhibit
"A" were opposite to and coterminous with road constructed
and completed at that date.
That the railroad company on the 4th of April, 1887, executed and delivered to Hugh Carlisle an instrument purporting to be a quitclaim deed, by which the company pretended
to convey to him seventeen thousand and ten 1% acres of the
land granted to it for the consideration of $21,790; and on
the 7th of February, 1887, executed another instrument to
Carlisle, by which it attempted to convey to him 23,739-,%
acres, and which recited a payment of $59,348.70.
That said instruments. were executed more than twenty.
years after the expiration of the time required for the construction of the railroad; that the company had no right or
power to convey any title or right; that its officers and
Carlisle knew the fact, and for the purpose of preventing the
reversion of the lands to the United States the company executed and Carlisle accepted the conveyances. That while
they recite a valuable consiO-3ration paid by him, no money
or valuable thing was paid, but that the whole transaction
was merely a device to mislead and deceive for the purpose
of enabling Carlisle to set up a claim that he held the lands
as a purchaser for value and in good faith from the railroad
company. That he is a purchaser mala f-de, well knowing
that the purchage was in violation of the act of 1856; that
he holds them under a secret trust for said comipany and its
stockholders, and that he and .his relatives are the largest
stockholders, and elected themselves, and others subject to

UNITED STATES v. TENNESSEE .& COOSA R'D.

246

Statement of the Case.

their control, directors, and by directors so composed the conveyances to him were executed.
That there is valuable timber on the lands which the company and other persons are cutting and carrying away, and
valuable mines which they are workirg, and that the company is collecting the purchase money for lands sold by them,
and is alienating other lands, sand it is therefore necessary
to have a receiver appointed.
A number of persons beside Carlisle are made defendants
on the ground that they are in possession of some of the
lands, and the Nashville &c. Railway Company and the
Manhattan 'Trust Company are also made defendants on
the ground that they claim an interest in a large part of the
lands under contract with the Tennessee and Coosa Railroad
Company, which it is averred were taken with knowledge of
the rights of the United States.
The prayer is for a receiver and an injunction and cancellation of the selections made by the company, the conveyances
and contracts made by it, and for general relief.
The Exhibits A and B contain a list of. lands respectiVely
within the six- and fifteen-mile limit, and Exhibits D and E
are the conveyances to Carlisle.
A receiver was appointed upon the bill without notice, and
an injunctionpendente lite issued. The injunction was subsequently modified to exclude from its operation certain of the
lands.
Carlisle filed a demurrer and answer to the bill. The answer
admitted all the allegations of the bill material to the propositions presented on this appeal except those charging deception and fraud in the conveyances to him, but specifically
alleged that they were executed in good faith and for valuable consideration, and that the lands included in the deed
from the company to him (Exhibit "D" of original bill) are
all opposite to and coterminous with the ten and 22-100 miles of
completed road. By an amendment to the answer it was
alleged that said lands were within six miles of the line of
definite location of the road and within the primary granted
limits.

OCTOBER TERIM, 1899.
Statement of the Case.

It was further alleged that he contracted with the railroad
company in 1859 to build the road; that in 1860 the company
executed a mortgage upon its franchises and, other property,
especially upon the'lands granted by Congress, to secure 400
bonds, each of the value of $1000, issued by the company,
and eleven of them were pledged with him to secure the
amount due him for- work done prior to 1861, and that at the
time the civil war broke out he had 400 hands working on
the road, and was progressing rapidly with the building of
the same. That during the war and after the war his and the
company's financial condition prevented further construction. In 1871 the company made a conditional sale-of the
road to the East Alabama and Cincinnati Railroad Company
to complete the road, but that company only built five miles
of it between Gadsden and Attalla; that in 1883 the Coosa
company resumed possession, and passed a series of resolutions
approving and ratifying what he had -done, constituting him
its financial agent with power to construct, equip and put in
running order the road from Attalla to Guntersville, and empowered him to use all the assets of the company ; and agreed
to pay him out of the assets the original cost and expenses that
he should incur in the construction, equipment and putting
the road in running order, together with twenty per cent, in
addition for superintendence and advances made by him; and
that he retain a lien on the railroad and its franchises, both
real and personal, until the costs and expenses incurred by
him be fully paid off, together with said twenty per cent in
addition. The said resolutions also revived and renewed the
indebtedness due to him for work done prior to 1860.
That he put forth every energy to build the road, and
expended in the'work under a contract with the company large
sums of his private resources; that the company had no money
and no other resources except said lands, and no means except
as supplied by him.
That in 1886 the road was completed as far as Littleton, a
distance of ten and 22-100 miles; that during all this time the
money due him for work done prior to 1861, had not been
paid, and that sum, amounting to $17,000, and the money

UNITED STATES v. TENNESSEE & COOSA R'D.

247

Statement of the Case.

expended afterwards by him, amounted to $85,750.92, and
that his account was submitted to the board of directors of
the company and was credited and approved.
That in February, 1887, the directors, desiring to pay him,
and having no .ssets, offered to convey the lands described in
Exhibit "E" to the bill in paymentpro tanto of his account
at two dollars and a half per acre; that he finally agreed to
accept twenty-three thousand seven hundred and thirty-nine
and 57-100 acres at said price, and the company conveyed the
same to him absolutely, without any trust or reservation whatever, and that after receiving such conveyance there still
remained due him $26,401.27.
That on the 2d of April, 1888, the company conveyed to
him about 16,400--acres of land, described in Exhibit "D,"
attached to the original bill, at the price of one dollar and
twenty-five cents per acre, which was the full value of the
interest of the company in the lands, because they lay
within the conflicting limits of the grants to the company and
the Alabama and Chattanooga Railroad Company, and the
Coosa company only owned an undivided moiety; that the
consideration was money due the respondent as aforesaid,
and the conveyance was absolute and without any trust or
reservation.
That all the lands described in Exhibit "E" are a part of
the first one hundred and twenty sections of the .grant, and
are opposite to and coterminous with the first twenty miles of
the railroad as shown by the map of the definite location,
which was duly filed in accordance with the act of Congress,
and are included in the lands which the company was authorized to sell in advance of the construction of any portion of
the road. And it was alleged in an amendment to the answer
that the company sold lands within the first one hundred and
twenty sections at divers times to divers persons for two and
50-100 dollars per acre, usually on credit and notes taken
and placed in his, Carlisle's, hands as collateral security for
the money due him, and most of the notes still remain in his
hands, and only a small amount has been paid thereon; that
the vendees of the company are in possession, and that he

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Statement of the Case.

during the years 1887 and 1888 sold for a valuable consideration the lands described in Exhibit "E" of the original bill to
purchasers in good faith, who paid for the same and received
his warranty deed. A list of the purchasers is attached to
the answer.
The answer of the railroad company was substantially the
same as that of Carlisle, and the answers of the other respoindents allege their respective relations to the lands, but
are not otherwise material to the propositions in controversy.
Upon the testimony submitted, oral and documentary, the
Circuit Court found as follows:
"First. That prior to the 29th day of September, 1890, the
Tennessee and Coosa Railroad Company had sold to bona fde
purchasers all the lands embraced in the first 120 sections,
which by the terms of the granting act it was authorized to
sell in advance of the construction of the road. That these
sales were bona fde and made to aid in the construction of
the road. That the allegations of the bill, that the sale to
Carlisle was without consideration and colorable, arb not sustained by the evidence, but the sale to Carlisle was bona ftde
and based on good consideration, and the proceeds of the sale
used in the construction and equipment of the road.
"Second. The court finds that the Tennessee and Coosa
Railroad from Gadsden to Littleton, a distance of ten and
22-100 miles, was completed and in operation on and before
the 29th day of September, 1890, and that the lands described
in Exhibit D to the original bill, to wit, the lands embraced
in'and conveyed by the deed from the Tennessee and Coosa
Railroad Company to Hugh Carlisle, bearing date the 4th
day of April, 1887, are lands which lie opposite to that part
of the road which was completed and in operation on the
29th day of September, 1890, and therefore not Within the
lands forfeited by the act of September 29, 1890.
"The court is therefore of th opinion that there has been
no forfeiture of the lands as to which a judicial declaration of
forfeiture is sought by the bill, and it is accordingly ordered
and decreed that the relief sought by the bill be denied and
the bill dismissed."

UNITED STATES v. TENNESSEE & COOSA R'D.

249

Opinion of the Court.

In the opinion of the court it "was said, "that the lands
embraced in the first one hundred and twenty sections of the
granting act, the railroad company was authorized to sell in
advance of the construction of the road, and that the parties
to whom such sales were made, took good title, and there
can be no recovery or restitution of any of these lands to the
public domain in this case. 2. That the lands described in
Exhibit D to original bill are lands which lie opposite to that
part of the road which was completed and in operation on the
29th day of September, 1890, and are not within the lands
covered by the act of September 29, 1890." 81 Fed. Rep. 544.
The decree of the Circuit Court was affirmed by the Circuit
Court of Appeals, 52 U. S. App. 171, and the United States
took this appeal.'
MrT. Charles W. Russell for appellants.
eral was on his brief.

.Mr. Amos

-M1r. Solicitor Gen-

. Goodhue for appellees.

MR. JusTicn MoKENNA delivered the opinion of the court.
The questions which primarily arise on this appeal are based
on the provisions of the granting act of 1856 and the forfeiting act of 1890.
The United States contend that the provisions of the former
caused a reversion of the title in 1866; the contention of appellees is that. some affirmative action, legislative or judicial, on
the part of the grantor, was necessary for the forfeiture of the
grant, and that until such action the title and all the powers
conferred by the act of 1856 continued and could be exercised.
And further, that the act of 1890 was the measure of forfeiture.
By the act of 1856 it is enacted "That there be and is hereby granted to the State of Alabama, for the purpose of aiding in the construction of railroads;
from the Tennessee River, at or near Gunter's Landing, to
Gadsden, on the .Coosa River, . . . every- alternate section of land designated by odd numbers for six sections in
width on each side of each of said roads."

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
-

OpinIon of the Court.

"SEc. 3. That the lands hereby granted to the said State
shall be subject to the disposal of the legislature thereof for
the purposes aforesaid and no other.
S"SEc. 4. .That the lands hereby granted to said State
shall be disposed of by said State only in manner following,
that is to say: That a quantity of land, not exceeding one
hundred and twenty sections for each of said roads, and
in6luded within a continuous length of twenty miles of each
of said roads, may be sold; and when the governor of said
State shall certify to the Secretary of the Interior that any
twenty continuous miles of any of said roads is completed, then
another quantity of land hereby granted, not to exceed one
hundred and twenty sections for each of said roads having
twenty continuous miles completed as aforesaid, and included
within a continuous length'of twenty miles of each such roads,
may be sold; and so, from time to time, until said roads are
completed; and if any of said roads is not completed within
ten years, no further sale shall be made, and the lands unsold
shall revert to the United States."
The material part of the act of 1890 is as follows:
"1Be it enacted, That there is hereby forfeited to the United
States, and the United States hereby resumes the tite thereto,
all lands heretofore granted to any State or to any corporation to aid in the construction of a railroad opposite to and
coterminous with the portion of any such railroad not now
completed and in operation for the construction and benefit
of which such lands were granted, and all such lands are
declared to be a part of the public domain."
These principles are established: That acts like that of 1856
convey a present title, that the conditions expressed in them
are subsequent, not precedent, and the rights and powers of
the grantee continue until the grant is directly forfeited by
legislative or judicial proceedings. If the cases were less certain, less directly applicable to the case at bar, we might
attend in detail to the able argument of the counsel for the
United States.
In &l ulenberg v. Earriman,21 Wall. 44, the leading case,
the road in aid of which the grant was made was not con-

UNITED STATES v. TENNESSEE & COOSA R'D.

251

Opinion of the Court.
structed, the ten years' limitation upon the sale of the land
had expired, and of the provision that the lands should revert
to the United States it was said that it was "no more than a
provision that the grant shall be'void if a condition subsequent be not perf9rmed." Sheppard's Touchstone was cited
and applied as follows:
"In Sheppard's Touchstone it is said: ' If the words in the
close or conclusion of a condition be thus, that the land shall
return to the enfeoffor, etc., or that -heshall take it again and
turn it to his own profit, or that the land shall revert, or that
the feoffor shall recipere the land, these are, either of them,
good words in a condition to give a reentry-as good as the
word "renter"-and by these words the estate will be made
conditional.' The prohibition against further sales, if the
road be not completed within the period prescribed, adds
nothing to the force of the provision. A cessation of sales in
that event is implied in the condition that the lands shall then
revert; if the condition be not enforced the power to sell continues as before its breach, limited only by the objects of the
grant, and the manner of sale prescribed in the act.
"In what manner the reserved right of the grantor for
breach of the condition must be asserted so as to restore the
estate depends upon the character of the grant. If it be a
private grant, that right must be asserted by entry or its
equivalent. If the grant be a public one it must. be asserted
by judicial, proceedings authorized by law, the equivalent of
an inquest of office at common law, finding the fact of forfeiture and adjudging the restoration of the estate on that ground,
or there must be sonle legislative assertion of ownership of
the property for breach of the condition, such as an act directing the possession and appropriation of the property, or that
it be offered for sale or settlement. At common law the soy-•
ereign could not make an entry in person, and, therefore, an
office found was necessary to determine the estate, but, as
said by .this court in a late case, Ithe mode of asserting or
of resuming the forfeited grant is subject to the legislative
authority of the government. It may be after judicial investi-

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opiilon of the Court.

gation, or by taking possession directly under the authority of
the government without these preliminary proceedings.' In
the present case no action has been taken either by legislation or
judicial proceedings to enforce a forfeiture of the estate granted
by the acts of 1856 and 1864. The title remains, therefore, in
the State as completely as it existed on the day when the title
by location of the route of the railroad acquired precision and
became attached to the adjoining alternate sections."
The power of sale of one hundred and twenty sections in
advance of the commencement of the construction of the road
wag impliedly decided. That power, however, came more
explicitly into consideration in Railroad Land Co. v. Courtright, 21 Wall. 310, where again a similar granting act was
passed on. The court reaffirmed the principles expressed in
Schulenberg v. Harriman,and said again by Mr. Justice Field:
"It is contended by the defendants, first, that under the
act of Congress of May 15, 1856, no lands could be sold by
the State until twenty continuous miles of the road were constructed; second, that if one hundred and twenty sections
could be sold in advance of such construction, they could only.
be taken from lands adjoining the line of the road from its
commencement on the east; and, third,that the grant by the
State to the first company was upon conditions precedent,
which not having been complied with, the title did not pass.
Neither of these positions can, in our judgment, be maintained.
The act of Congress by its express language authorized a sale
of one hundred and twenty sections in advance of the construction of any part of the road. It was only as to the sale
of the remaining sections that the provision requiring a previous completion of twenty miles applied. It is true it was
the sole object of the grant to aid in the construction, of the
railroad, and for that purpose thesale of the land was only
-allowed, as the road was completed in divisions, except as to
one hundred and twenty sections.
"The evident intention of Congress in making this exception was to furnish aid for such preliminary work as would be
required before the construction of any part of tho road. 1No
conditions, therefore, of any kind were imposed upon the State

UNITED STATES v. TENNESSEE & COOSA

ID.

253

Opinion of the Court.

in the disposition of this quantity, Congress relying upon the
good faith of the State to see that its proceeds were applied
for the purposes contemplated by the act."
Counsel for the United States attempts to distinguish the
Courtright case from the case at bar, and asserts that in
Schulenberg v. Harriman the power of the State to sell, subject or not subject to the grantor's rights after the expiration
of ten years, although the road had not been finished, was not
at issue; and any expressions on that topic were mere dicta.
We do not assent to this view. Such power was a necessary
consequence of the principles announced, and they have a
more extensive authority and application than to the instance
in that case.
The title passed to the State, it was decidedi continued in
the State with all its attributes and power, except as expressly
limited, until it should be resumed by the grantor by appropriate proceedings for breach- of conditions. Hence the logs
-in that case, though cut upon land to aid a railroad which
had not been constructed, and after the time designated for
its construction, and after which all unsold lands should revert
to the'State, was held to belong to the State. And in the
"Courtrightcase upon the same principles it was held that
lands sold by the railroad without constructing the road
carried title to the vendee. There was a reassertion and an
application of the same principles in United Sates v. IQughey, 172 U. S.206.
It follows that by the act of June 3, 1856, the State of
Alabama took the title to the lands in controversy upon conditions subsequent, and conveyed such title upon the same
conditions to the Coosa Railroad; and that it continued in
the railroad until determined by proceedings, legislative or
judicial, for such forfeiture, and until such determination all
the rights and powers conferred by the aot continued and
could be exercised.
Those rights and powers were (1) to sell 120 sections of
land in advance of the construction of any part of the road;
(2) to sell a'like quantity upon the comi'letion of any twenty
miles of road.

OCTOBER TERIf, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

The first power, it is claimed, was exercised by sales to bona
ftde purchasers. The condition of the second power was not
performed- twenty continuous miles of road were not completed at the time of the passage of the act of 1890. But it
is not denied that ten and 22-100 miles were completed before
the passage of that act.
1. The Circuit Court found that the first power was exercised as claimed. In other words, that the lands embraced
in the first one hundred and twenty sections were sold to bona
fide purchasers in aid of the construction of the road, and
"that the allegations of the bill, that the sale to Carlisle was
without consideration and colorable, was not sustained by the
evidence, but the sale to Carlisle was bona fde and was based
on good consideration, and that the proceeds of the sale were
used in the construction and equipment of the road." We
think that the findings are sustained by the evidence.
2. By the act of 1890 the United States forfeits and
"resumes the title thereto all lands heretofore granted to any
State or to any corporation to aid in the construction of a railroad opposite to and coterminous with the portion of any such
railroad not now completed and in operation for the construction or benefit of which such lands were granted, and all such
lands are declared to be a part of the public domain."
The necessary implication of these provisions seems to be
that lands opposite completed road are not forfeited or
resumed. But the counsel for the United States contests or
seems to contest the implication. He says: "The general
forfeiture act of September,- 1890, intends to forfeit lands
opposite unconstructed portions of road. It intends to forfeit
them for thtat reason. It intends by no means to say that no
lands are to be otherwise and for other reasons forfeited; that
all conditions precedent in all cases of land grants are waived.
It purports to waive nothing, but to forfeit for a cause common to all the old grants of lands for railroads -failure to
construct priori to September, 1890." And again : "That act
of 1890 was intended to take away lands and not to grant
them, and it is too well settled to need discussion that lands
and rights of the public cvnnot be granted away except in

UNITED STATES v. TENNESSEE & COOSA R'D.

255

Opinion of the Court.

the most explicit, afflr~mative terms." This, perhaps, is but
another form of the contention which we have considered
and refuted, but we may further say that its error is in assuming that the act of 1890 is claimed to be a grant. The act of
1856 was the grant. The title it conveyed continued until
resumed, and as to what lands it was resumed the act of 1890
defines.
These considerations dispose of the contentions as to the
120 sections and the lands opposite completed road, but it is
assigned as error that the Court of Appeals omitted to direct
"a decree in favor of the United States as to lands not within
either the said 120 sections or the 17,410.33 acres [lands opposite completed road], whether sold or not." And it is said:
"The road being thirty-six miles and a fraction long, and the
120 sections absolutely required to be along twenty consecutive miles, and being in fact, as certified before the war of
1861, at and near the Guntersville end, sixteen miles and a
fraction of road, at least, remain to be considered. Ten miles,
beginning at the Gadsden end, were constructed before the
act of 1890, leaving at least six miles; so that, obviously, the
easy method resorted to by the lower courts of dividing all
the lands into 120-section lands and lands opposite constructed
road ignores our rights along six miles, to say nothing of the
large body of lands along the twenty miles referred to but
not in the 120 sections of place and indemnity certified before
the war, and opposite uncompleted road in 1890."
This, it is replied, is contradicted by the findings of the
Circuit Court, and that the record affords no evidence to dispute the findings. The findings were, as we have seen, that
the lands embraced in the first one hundred and twenty sections were sold to bona fide purchasers; that Carlisle was
such; that the road from Gadsden to Littleton, a distance of
10.22 miles, was completed and in operation on or before the
29th of September, 1890, and that the lands conveyed to Carlisle by deed dated April 4, 1887, were opposite to that part
of the road. The conclusion was that "there has been no
forfeiture of the lands as to which a judicial declaration of
forfeiture is sought by the bill, and it is accordingly ordered

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

and decreed that the relief sought by the bill be denied and
the bill dismissed."
Manifestly this decision is dependent upon the identity of
the lands described in the bill with those embraced in the
first one hundred and twenty sections and those opposite the
ten miles of completed road. But this does not seem to be
the fact. The bill gives a description of the lands by townships, ranges and sections, and at -the argument a map was
used showing them, their relation to the railroad, and its
location and terminL It also showed the end of the first one
hundred and twenty sections. Assuming the map to be correct, (and it is not questioned,)' some judgment may be formed
of the length and location of the road, the relative situation of
the lands described in the bill to the road - to its completed
and uncompleted part; and it appears that there are a number of acres of laud south of the first one hundred and twenty
sections, and between them and Littleton, (a distance of six
miles,) of which a forfeiture should have been declared. In
other words; it appears from the evidence and admissions that
the road is thirty-six miles long, that the first one hundred and
twenty sections were selected along a continuous length of
twenty miles of the road from Gunter's Landing southward,
and that the part of the road which was completed at the date
of the forfeiting act was from Gadsden northward ten and ?&
miles, and terminated at Littleton. It is evident, therefore,
that lands opposite the road from Littleton, northward six
miles, are not embraced in the first one hundred and twenty
sections and were not opposite completed road September 29,
1890, and hence were forfeited by the act of Congress of that
date, (supra,) and if included in the description of the bill
should be declared forfeited.
It is urged, however, by appellees that the decree should
not be reversed, because the bill was framed to procure a
forfeiture of the grant, not to adjust its limits, and because
the question was not raised by the assignment of errors on
the appeal to the Circuit C6urt nor on this appeal.
Neither reason is sufficient. We may notice a plain error,
though not assigned, and the prayi3r in the bill for a for-

SOUTHERN RAILWAY v. CARNEGIE STEEL CO.

257

Syllabus.

feiture of the entire grant did not preclude a forfeiture of
a part of it.
We think, therefore, a further investigation on the partic-

ular point. indicated is -required by the Circuit Court, and
return the case for such investigation.
The decree of the Circuit Cour~of Appeals is reversed, and
the case remanded to the 'Circuit Court "withdirections to
proceedin accordance with this opinion.

8-7f 1783131
176 3161

SOUTHERN RAILWAY COMPANY v. CARNEGIE
STEEL COMPANY..
OERTiORABI TO THE ciRcurr COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE FOURTH1
CIROUiT.
No. 8. Argued October 13,14, 1898. -Decded January 29,1900.
In a decree for the foreclosure and sale of a railroad property under a mortgage, power was reserved by the court to compel the purchaser to pay
any and all receivers' debts or claims adjudged or to be adjudged as prior
in lien or equity to the mortgage debts or entitled to preference in payment out of the .proceeds of sale. Held, That the rights of creditors
whose claims had been filed were not affected by the sale of the property
oi'by the fact of its transfer to the purchaser; -nor did the reservation
in the order of sale prevent the purchaser from contesting upon their
merits any claims allowed after the'purchase under the decree of sale.
A railroad mortgagee when accepting his security impliedly agrees that the
current debts of a railroad company contracted in the ordinary course of
Its business shall'be paid out of current receipts before h has any claim
upon such Income; that, within this rule, .a debt not contracted upon the
personal credit of the company, but in order to keep the railroad itself
in condition to be used with reasonable safety for the transportation of
persons and property, and with the expectation of the parties that it was
to be met out of the current receipts of the company, may be treated as
a current debt; that whether the debt was contracted upon the personal
credit of the company, without any reference to its receipts, is to be
determined in each case by the amount of the debt, the time and terms
of payment, and all other circumstances attending the transaction; and
that when current earnings are used for the benefit of mortgage creditors
before current expenses are paid, the mortgage security is chargeable in
equity with the restoration of the funds thus improperly diverted from
their primary use.
VOL. cLxxvI-17

