GLASS v. CONCORDIA PARISH POLICE JURY..

207.

Statement of the Case.

GLASS v.'CONCORDIA PARISH POLICE JURY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE

UNITED

STATES FOR THE

EASTERN DISTRICT OF LOUISIANA."
No. 229. Submitted January 8, 1900. -Decided

January 29,1900.

The warrants and orders sued on in this case wqre payable to the order of
Matthew Carr, deceased, who was a citizen of the State of Louisiana.
They were assets of his estate, and the plaintiff in error acquired title to
them through a judicial sale made by the sheriff of the parish of Concordia on the 22d day of May, 1868, under authority of an order of the
probate court of said parish having the administration of said estate.
The plaintiff in the suit was, at the date of his said purchase, and at
the date of filing his original petition herein, a citizen of the State- of
Missouri, and the defendant was a citizen of the State of Louisiana.
Held, that the plaintiff came within the restriction of ยง 1 of the act of,
March 3, 1875: "Nor shall any Circuit or District Court have cognizance
of any suit founded on contract in favor of an assignee, unless, a suit
might have been prosecuted in said court to recover thereon if no
assigrment had been made, except in cases of promiss6ry notes negotiable by the law merchant, and bills of exchange," and that the CircuIt
Court below correctly held that jurisdiction could not be sustained.

THIS was a suit brought in the Circuit Court of the United
States for the Eastern District of Louisiana by William 0.
Glass, a citizen of the State of Missouri, against the parish of
Concordia, to recover on certain warrants or orders foi levee
work; and, having been dismissed for want of jurisdiction,
came to this court on the following certificate:
" This cause was tried at the present term of the court
solely on the defendant's exception to the jurisdiction of the
court, and it appearing from the jurisdictional facts alleged in
plaintiff's petition, admitted to be true by said exception, that
the warrants and orders sued on were payable to the order
of Matthew Carr, deceased, who was a citizen of the State of
Louisianai and were assets of his estate, and that the plaintiff
acquired title thereto through a judicial sale made b# the
sheriff of the parish of Concordia on the 22d day of May,
1868, under authority of an order of the probate court of said
parish having the administration of said estate; that plaintiff

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

at the date of -his said purchase and at the date of filing his
original petition herein, on the 2d day of Kovember, 1871;
was a citizen of the State of Missouri, and that the defendant
was a citizen of the State of Louisiana. Under the state, oi
facts the only question at issue upon the trial of said exception was whether the case, for the purpose of jurisdiction,
comes within the following restriction imposed by section 1
of the act of Congress approved March .3,.1875: 'Nor shall
any Circuit or District Court have cognizance of any suit
founded on contract in favor -of an assignee, unless a suit
might have been prosecuted in such court to recover thereon
if no assignment had been made, except in cases of promissory
notes, negotiable by the law merchant, and bills of exchange.'
And the court, for the reasons set forth in the written opinion
hereto annexed and made part hereof, has this day maintained
the defendant's exception to the jurisdiction of this court and
dismissed plaintiff's petition, with leave to amend, if so advised, and without prejudice, and now grants this certificate
for the purpose of enabling the plaintiff to obtain a review of
the Supreme Court of said jurisdictional question under the
fifth section of the act of Congress approved March 3, 1891."
.Ar. J. .D. Rouse and Xr. William rantfor plAintiff in error.
AXr. Edgar H. Farrar,.1.r. Benjamin F. Jonas, Xr. Ernest
B. Eruttschnitt and .Mr. Henry Z. Lazarus for defendants in
error.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE FuLL R, after making the above statement, delivered the opinion of the court.

Counsel for plaintiff in error state in their argument: "We
concede that neither Carr, his heirs, nor the administrator of
his est ite, nor the sheriff who made the sale, nor the judge
who ordered the sale, possessed the necessary citizenship to
sue on the warrants in the Circuit Court at the time this
action was brought. But we assert on principle, that a
purchaser at a sale made by authority of a probate court

GLASS v. CONCORDIA PARISH POLICE JURY.

209

Opinion of the Court.

derives title from none of these sources, but takes title by the
adjudication of the law acting directly, in rem, upon the
property itself."
The eleventh section of the judiciary act of 1789 provided:
"Nor shall any District or Circuit Court have cognizance of
any suit to recover the contents of any promissory note or
other chose in action in favor of an assignee, unless a suit
might have been prosecuted in such court to recover the said
contents if no assignment had been made, except in cases of
foreign bills of exchange."
In Sera v. Pitot, 6 Cranch, 332, the assets of an insolvent
partnership passed to syndics appointed for the benefit of
creditors under the laws of the Territory of Orleans, and this
court held that the syndics could not sue in the Federal courts
if the insolvents could not have done so. Mr. Chief Justice
Marshall said: "The circumstance, that the assignment was
made by operation of law, and not by the act of the party,
might probably take the case out 6f the policy of the act, but
not out of its letter and meaning. The legislature has made
no exception in favor of assignments so made. It is still a
suit to recover a chose in action in favor of an assignee, which
suit could not have been prosecuted if no assignment had been
made; and is therefore within the very terms of the law.
The case decided in 4 Cranch, was on a suit brought by an
administrator, and a residuary legatee, who were both aliens.
The representatives of a deceased person are not usually designated by the term 'assignees,' and are, therefore, not within
the words of the act."
The applicable language of the first-section of the act of
March 3, 1875, c. 137, 18 Stat. 470, which regulated the jurisdiction of the Circuit Courts when this suit. was instituted,
was as follows: "Nor shall any Circuit or District Court have
cognizance of any suit founded on contract in favor of an
assignee, unless a suit might have been prosecuted in such
court to recover thereon if no assignment had been made,
except in cases of promissory notes negotiable by the law
merchant and bills of exchange."
The differences between this provision and that of the act
VOL. CLXI-14

OCTOBER TERM 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

of 1789 are not material here. Sere v. Pitot,was decided in
1810; has been cited many times; frequently, with approval,
on analogous p6ints, Smith v. ?ailroad Company, 99 U. "S.
398 ; 0orbin v. Gounty of Black H1awk, 105 U. S. 659; .. e~ican National Railroad v. Davidson, 157 U. S . 201; though
criticised in Bushnell v. Rennedy, 9 Wall. 387, has never been
overruled, and is decisive 6f the present case.
The.title to Carr's estate passed on his death to his heirs.
(Rev. Civil Code-La., Arts. 940 et seq.) These warrants were
sold at a judicial sale under authority of an order of the probate court of the parish, having the adtiniistration of the
estate, by the sheriff of that parish. Glass becoime the purchaser, and the adjudication made and recorded by the sheriff
gave him title. Rev. Civil Code,. Arts. 2622, 2623. And,
moreover, the Code provided that: "All the warranties to
which private sales are subject exist against the heir in judi-

cial sales of the property of successions." Art. 2624; Deloach
v. Elder, 14. La. Ann. 662. The title thus obtained did not
devolvd on Glass in the same manner as the law devolves title
by its own operation on an executor, an administrator, an
heir, a universal legatee or a.receiver, but was transferred by
the sale and the adjudication. The purchaser at sales on
judgment and execution similarly obtains title through the
act of the executive officer.
Conceding that proceedings in settlement of estates in probate courts are in themselves proceedings in em, yet the title
to property ordered to be sord in such proceedings is not
transferred by the mere order of sale, but by the sale taking
place as prescribed. Its validity depends on the jurisdiction
of the probate court; its transfer is accomplished in the designated way through the designated instrumentality.
In our opinion Glass caine within the restriction of the
statute, and the Circuit Court correctly held that jurisdiction could not be sustained.
Judgment afflrmed.

