MOSS v. DOWMAIN.
Syllabus.

least once a week for from four to eight weeks, and in case of
personal service out of the State, no notice for less than twenty
days between the service and return day is contemplated in
any of the States except Mississippi, where a personal notice
of ten days seems to be sufficient. While, of course, theie statutes are not obligatory here, they are entitled to consideration
as expressive of the general sentiment of legislative bodies
upon the question of reasonableness of notice.
Without undertaking to determine what is a reasonable
notice to non-residents, we are of opinion, under the circumstances of this case, and considering the distance between the
place of service and the place of return, that five days was not
a reasonable notice, or due process of law; that the judgment
obtained upon such notice was not binding upon the defendant
Roller, and constitutes no bar to the prosecution of this action.
The judgment of the Court of Civil Appeals, aflrming the
judgment of the .DistrictCourt of Limestone County, must

there.fo'e be reversed, with instruction8 to remand the case
to that courtfor furtheryroceeding8 not inconsistent with
this ovinion.
THE CHIEF

JusTiCE and MR. JUSTicE BREwER dissented.

MOSS v. DOWMAN.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE EIGHTH
CIRCUIT.

1o.141. Argued and submitted January 31, February 1, 1900.-Decided February 26, 1900.

Decisions of the land dopartment in contest cases on questions of fact are con,clusive.
Dowinan went upon the public land in controversy, then unoccupied, on the
19th September, 1890, built a cabin and continued to live there. November
18, 1890, he made a formal homestead entry in the local land office, and
after five years of continued occupancy and proof of the same he received
a patent. On May 7, 1890, one Doran made a homestead entry of the same
land without occupying it, which he subsequently relinquished, Moss pay-

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Statement of the Case.
Ing him $1000 therefor, and thereupon Moss on the 24th of October, 1890,
filed that relinquishment in the local land office, and made a homestead
entry in her own name. April 22, 1891, she appeared on the laud, commenced th construction of a house, and occupied it when finished. A contest between the two as to which had the right to acquire title was finally
settled by the Secretary of the Interior in favor of Dowman. Held, that
the decision of the Secretary was correct.

ON March 17, 1897, a patent was issued to the appellee,
defendant below, for the southeast one quarter of section 22,
in township 65 north, of range 4 west of the fourth Principal meridian, in the State of Minnesota. Thereafter, and on
March 23, 1897, the appellant, plaintiff below, filed her bill
in the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of
Minnesota, seeking to charge the defendant as trustee of the
legal title for her benefit. To the bill as thus presented a
demurrer was filed, which, on November 4, 1897, was sustained by the Circuit Court, and the bill dismissed. On appeal
to the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit this
decree was, on June 27, 1898, affirmed, 60 U. S. App. 69, and
to review this decision this appeal was taken.
The title of defendant, as disclosed by the bill and exhibits,
is as follows: On September 19, 1890, he went upon the premises in controversy, then unoccupied, built a cabin, and continued to live therein (having on November 18, 1890, made
formal homestead entry in the local land office) during all the
proceedings in the land department, hereinafter stated, and
until he had completed five years of occupancy, and then
upon proof of such continued occupancy was awarded and
received a patent on account of his homestead entry and occupation. The claim of the plaintiff on the other hand rests
upon an entry in the land office prior to that of defendant,
followed by a settlement on the land later than his. From
1885 to 1890 this tract, though never settled upon br occupied
by any one, was the subject of repeated entries at the local
land office, such entries being made under the homestead law,
the later ones being as follows: On May 7, 1890,KRobert I.
Doran made a homestead entry. ' Subsequently, the plaintiff
paid to Doran the sum of one thousand dollars for a relinquish-

MOSS v. DOWILA T.
Opinion of the Court.

ment of his homestead entry, and on the 24th day of October,
1890, she filed in the local land office that relinquishment, and
at the same time made a homestead entry in her own name.
On April 22; 1891, two days less than six months after her
entry, she appeared on the land, with assistants, material,
furniture, etc., and commenced the construction of a home,
completed and occupied the same. A contest between the
plaintiff and defendant in reference to the right to acquire
title to this property was initiated in the local land office, and
carried by appeal to the Commissioner of the General Land
Office, and finally to the Secretary of the Interior, resulting
in a decision by the latter on December 19, 1894, in favor of
the defendant; and in pursuance thereof the patent was issued
to him.
.Mt. Jmes . Jedington for appellant.
Davi8 was on his brief.

XhI.

Thomas J.

(r. Charles A. Towne for appelle6, submitted on his'
brief.
:MR.

JUSTIOE BREWEIR

delivered the opinion of' the court.

Repeated rulings of this court have settled that the decisions of the land department in contest cases on 'questions of
fact are conclusive.
Defendant by taking actual possession on September 19,
1890, his entry in the land office on November 18, 1890, his
continued occupation and proof thereof, was entitled to the
patent which was thereafter issued to him, unless other facts
found by the department show that as matter of law a superior right was vested in the plaintiff. Such facts it is contended are the successive formal entries in the land office
unaccompanied by any actual possession of the land. - It may
be well to state some of these in detail: On May 11, 1888, following similar prior action, Lyman E. Thayer, of Wausau,
Wisconsin, made a homestead entry. On November 10, 1888,
one day less than six months thereafter, Thayer relinquished,

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

and Julia McCarty made a like entry. On May 9, 1889, one
day less than six months thereafter, McCarty relinquished,
and Napoleon B. Thayer made a like entry. On November 9,
1889, exactly six months thereafter, Thayer relinquished, and
John A. Murphy made a similar entry. On May 7, 1890, two
days less than six months thereafter, Murphy relinquished, and
Robert H. Doran made a like entry. On October 24, 1890,
Carrie Moss paid Doran one thousand dollars for a relinquishment of his entry, and on the same day, having obtained that
relinquishment, she filed it in the land office and made her
entry. Thereafter, and on April 22, 1891, two days before the
expiration of six months, she went upon the land, and made
improvements in the way of building and otherwise. As the
Secretary says in his opinion: "Although numerous persons
have made homestead entry of this land, none appear to have
done so in good faith, for none appear to have made any settlement during the period of five years in which it was
entered and relinquished every six months." In other words,
-the findings of fact made by the land department show that
the first person who made actual settlement upon the premises was the defendant, that his settlement and occupation
continued for the term prescribed by the statute, and therefore that such settlement and occupation thus continued entitled him to a patent unless defeated by these proceedings in
the nature of entries without settlement. In respect to them
it was found that for five years this tract had been subjected
to repeated entries, each entry made within six months of
the prior entry and accompanied by a relinquishment of such
prior entry, and thus for five years the land,, ithout any
settlement, without any occupation, was a football for homestead speculators, and withdrawn from actual settlement.
Counsel for appellant thus states the question:
"The application of supposed law to this state of fact, in
the determination by the Secretary of the Interior of the
iqghts of the litigants respectively, was as follows:
"'The only question to determine in this case is, whether
Dowman was a settler in good faith at the time Doran's relinquishment was placed on file in the local office. For, although

MOSS v. DOWAIAN.
Opinion of the Court.

Doran's entry was erroneously allowed, being of record it segregated the land, and therefore no right could be initiated by
reason of the settlement. But the itstaut the relinquishment
was filed in the local office, the right of the settler on the
land attached and an entry could not defeat it.
"'In view of these facts and that no evidence has been
introduced which shows that Dowman's settlement was not in
good faith, under the established rulings of this department
the settler Dowman's rights attached instantly on the filing
of Doran's relinquishment, and is therefore superior to Mosss
entry.'
"Upon this application of law to ascertained facts as recited,
and upon no other or different facts, pafent issued to appellee
as hereinbefore recited."
We are content to take this statement, and upon it are
clearly of the opinion that the decision of the land department was correct. The obvious purpose of the prefmption
and homestead statutes of the United States is to secure to
the actual settler the land upon which he has settled, and
to give him the prior right to perfect title by purchase or
continued occupation. While undoubtedly under the provisions of the statutes and the regulations of the land department there are at times opportunities for a speculator to
obtain title to public lands, it must be always remembered
that in the eye of the public land laws of the United States
the speculator is never an object of favor. Preemption and
homestead laws were enacted for the benefit of the actual
settler, and to that end they should be construed and administered. The plaintiff herein contends that this tract of land
was withdrawn for five years from settlement by mere successive entries in- the land office, and could be kept thus withdrawn in the future indefinitely, while speculators wait such
time as it becomes convenient to them to perfect title by settlement and occupation. The proposition thus made is so
offensive to the spirit and purpose of the land laws of the
United States that unless the statutes. make such a result necessary from a true construction of their language it ought to
VOL.

xxv-i-27

,OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

be rejected. Again and again has this court affirmed the
proposition that the settler is the beneficiary of the predmption and homestead laws of the United States. In Lytle v.
Arkansaq, 9 How. 314, 333, it was said:
"The claim of a pregmption is not that shadowy right which
by some it is considered to be. Until sanctioned by law, it has
no existence as a substantive right. But when covered by the
law, it becomes -a legal right, subject to be defeated only by a
failure to perform the conditions annexed to it. It is founded
in an enlightened public policy, rendered necessary by the.
enterprise of our citizens. The adventurous pioneer, who is
found in advance of our settlements, encounters many hardships and not infrequently dangers from savage incursions.
He is generally poor, and it is fit that his enterprise should
be rewarded by the privilege of purchasing the favorite spot
selected by him, not to exceed. 160 acres. That this is the
national feeling is shown by the course of legislation for many
years."
So also in Clement8 v. Warner, 24 How. 094, 397:
"The policy of the Federal government in favor of settlers
upon public lands has been liberal. It recognizes their superior
equity to become the purchasers of a limited extent of land,
comprehending their improvements, over that of any other
person."
Again, in BohaZZ v. Dilla, 114 U. S. 47, 51:
"Those laws are intended for the benefit of persons making
a settlement upon the public lands, followed by residence and
improvement and the erection of a dwelling thereon."
And again, in Anderson v. Carkins, 135 U. S.,483, 487:
"The theory of the homestead law is, that the homestead
shall be for the exclusive benefit of the homesteader. .
The law contemplates five years' continuous occupation by
the homesteader, with no alienation except for the named
purposes."
These quotations might be multiplied, and nothing contradic'tory thereof can be found in our decisions. Their oft repetition simply accentuates the proposition heretofore stated, that
the actual settler is the one for whose benefit the homestead
and preemption laws were enacted.

MOSS v. DOWMA1e.
Opinion of the Court.

Counsel say that "a primafacie valid entry of record oper-.
ates to appropriate the land covered thereby and to reserve it
pending the existence of such prior entry from all subsequent
disposition;" that by analogy to express statutory provisions,
a homestead entry without settlement is adjudged to be operative for six months; "that from 1859 to 1885, a period of over
twenty-six years, an uninterrupted chain of cases held that no
right upon cancellation of an entry inured by reason of a settlement made during its existence; that to hold otherwise would
be to enable a trespasser to benefit by his own wrong, and that
any such pretended claim was invalid and of no effect against
another entry made at the time of cancellation."
We deem it unnecessary to consider the correctness of these
rulings or the power of the land department to secure to one
who has made a formal entry a certain length of time in which
to perfect his settlefnentand improvement.. The Revised Statutes in terms give no such right. It is true that section 5 of
the act of May 20, 1862, c. 75, 12 Stat. 392, 393, carried.into
the Revised Statutes as section 2297, provides"If at any time after the filing of the affidavit, as required
in section twenty-two hundred and ninety, and before the expiration of the five years mentioned in section twenty-two hundred
ind ninety-one, it is proved, after due notice to the settler, to
the satisfaction of the register of the land office, that the person
having filed such affidavit has actually changed his residence,
or abandoned the land for more than six months at any time,
then and in that event the land so entered shall revert to the
Government."
But that section simply authorizes the Government to annul.
an entry if thereafter it appears that the homesteader has actually changed his residence or abandoned the land for more than
six months. But.the very phraseology, "changing residence,"
"abandoning land," implies a settlement on the land which is
changed and abandoned, and does not authorize a waiting for
settlement and occupation. On the other hand, section 2291,
Rev. Stat., providing for final proof, requires an affidavit that
the applicant has "resided upon or cultivated the same for the
term of five years immediately succeeding the*time of filing

OCTOBER TERMT,

1899.

Opinion of the Court.

the affidavit." In other words, the one section contemplates
an immediate settlement and occupation, and the other provides
for temporary abandonment.
It is also true that on March 3, 1881, said section 2297 was
amended by adding this proviso:
"That where there may be climatic reasons the Commissioner of the General Land Office may, in his discretion, allow
the settler twelve months from the date of filing in which to
commence his residence on said land under such rules and
regulations as he may prescribe." Act of March 3, 1881, c. 153,
21 Stat. 511.
But this contemplates a separate ruling for specific reasons
in particular cases, and no such ruling was applied for in the
present case. It may be argued, it is true, that in view of the
practice of the department it was a Congressional recognition
of its validity and an enlargement of the time in the particular
cases specified.
But, as we have said, we do not feel called upon to decide
upon the validity of any ruling or practice which secures to one
making a homestead entry the right to perfect that entry by
subsequent settlement and occupation.
In the case at bar every right which Doran possessed was
ended on October 24, 1890, by the filing of his relinquishment
in the local land office. The act of May 14, 1880, c. 89, 21 Stat.
140, provides: "That when a preemption, homestead or timber culture claimant shall file a written relinquishment of his
claim in the local land office,, the land covered by such claim
shall be held as open to settlement and entry without further
action on the part of the Commissioner of the General Land
Office."
At the moment of filing that relinquishment, Dowman, the
defendant, was a settler in occupation of the tract, and Moss, the
plaintiff, made her application to enter, and the question is as
to the relative rights, at the moment the land becomes open to
entry, of one a settler in actual occupation and one making a
'formal -entry in the land office. For reasons heretofore stated,
we have no doubt that the settler is entitled to preference. It
is true he must perfect his right of settlement by making an

ROSS v. DOWMAN.
Opinion of the Court.

entry in the land office, and section 3 of the act of May 14, 1880,
21 Stat. 140, heretofore referred to, provides:
"That any settler who has settled, or who shall hereafter
settle, on any of the public lands of the United States, whether
surveyed or unsurveyed with the intention of claiming the
same under the homestead laws, shall be allowed the same
time to file his homestead application and perfect his 6riginal
entry in the United States land office as is now allowed to
settlers under the pregmption laws to put their claims on
record, and his right shall relate back to the date of settlement, the same as if he settled under the preemption
laws."
Within less than thirty days from the filing of Doran's
relinquishment Dowman made a formal entry in the land
office, and that entry, based upon actual possession, is entitled
to preference over an entry without possession.
Whenever a homestead entry has been made, followed by
no settlement or occupation on the part of the one making
the entry, and that homestead entry has by lapse of time or
relinquishment, or otherwise, been ended, any one in actual
possession as a settler and occupier of the land has a prior.
right to perfect title thereto. We indorse in this respect what
was said by the learned judge of the Circuit Court:
"That Dowman had acquired no rights by his settlement
prior to Doran's relinquishment, and might as respects Doran
have been regarded as a trespasser, makes no difference.
When Doran relinquished Dowman ceased to be a trespasser,
and was not only an actual, but a lawful settler. There was
no evidence of mala ftdem about Dowman's settlement which
should affect its legality when the time came for a right to
attach to it under the land laws. Neither Doran nor any of
the long line of speculative homesteaders who had kept up
holdings by entries and relinquishments every six months
'had ever appeared on the land. The object of the homestead.
laws is not to encourage speculation, but settlement, and if
Dowman knew all the antecedent facts he might well expect
that an actual settler would acquire the right to the land,
lawfully, upon the next relinquishment, and make his settle-

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Counsel for Parties.

ment as the Secretary finds as a fact that it was made -in
good faith."
For these reasons we are of opinion that the judgment of
the Court of Appeals was right, and it is
Affirmed.

UNITED STATES v. ORTIZ.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF PRIVATE LAND CLAIMS.
No.20. Argued October 11, 1899. -Decided

February 26, 1900.

In the hearing of an application for confirmation of an alleged Mexican grant
the law casts primarily upon the applicant the duty of tendering such pro6f
as to the existence, regularity and archive record of the grant, as well as
his connection with it, such as possession, ownership and other related
incidents, of sufficlent probative force to create a just inference as to the
reality and validity of the grant, before the burden of proof, if at all, can
be shifted from the claimant to the United States.
The surveyor general had authority to make a supplementary investigation,
and the supplementary proceedings were properly admitted in evidence.
The special qualifications of the witness Tipton, resulting from ils great
familiarity with the signatures of Armijo and Vigil, qualified him to
testify as an expert as to the genuineness of the signatures upon the
alleged grant which were claimed to be theirs.
Genuine signatures of Armijo and of Vigil, shown to have come from the
archives, were proporly received in evidence as standards of comparison
with the signatures offered to prove the alleged grant.
Enlarged photographs of such original signatures were also properly received.
After an extended examination of the testimony, the court holds that It is
unnecessary to examine or decide upon the questions made as to the form
of the alleged grant and other questions, and refrains from expressing an
opinion upon all, and holds that the court below erred In confirming the
grant.

THE

statement of the case will be found in the opinion of the

court.
Afr. TiW=am H. Pope for appellant. XM. Solicitor General
'and Xr.. Matthew G. ]eynold8 were on his brief.
Mr. T. B. Oatron for appellees.

