THE NEWFOUNDLAND.
Syllabus.

We certify the foregoing petition is in our opinion well
founded and is not made for the purpose of delay.
RwH~n DE GnAy,
WILLIA GRANT.
-Yr.Richard De Gray, Xr.William Grant and .Mr. ..D.
Rouge filed a brief supporting the petition.
Samuel I. Gilmore and 3fr. 'Branch K Xiller, solicit-

.r.

ors for the city of New Orleans, filed an opposing statement.
MR.

JUSTICE BROWN delivered the opinion of the court.

On motion for a reheariug upon briefs filed, and upon an.
affidavit of the death of the petitioner, John G. Warner, on
March 21, 1899, it appearing in -this case that the court
overlooked the fact that the drainage warrants, which formed
the basis of this suit, were duly presented for paymn.t on
June 6, 1876, it is .

Ordered that the decree heretofore entered in thi8 case P,
and is hereby, vacated and set aside, and that a new
* decree be entered nunc pro tune as of 3farch 13, 1899,

afflrming the decree of the 'Circuit Court of Appea78 in
all repects.

-THE NEWFOUNDLAND.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE 'UNITED STATES FOR
THE DISTRICT OF SOUTH CAROLINA.
No. 156. Argued November 8, 6,1899.-Decided January 15,1900.

The question In this case is as to the adequacy of the proof offered on
behalf of the Government and the captors to show that the Newfoundland was trying to violate the blockade of Havana, and the court is of
opinion that it does not attain to that degree which affords a reasonable
assurance of the justice of the sentence of forfeiture in the court below
- that It raises doubts and suspicions and makes probable cause for the
capture of the ship and justification of her captors, but not forfeiture.
VOL. CLXXVI-7

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.

-

Opinion of the Court.

TH. case is stated in the opinion of the court.
W. Theodore G. Barker for appellants.
Rowting8 was on his brief.

Mr. G. A. R.

.'. A8&istant Attorney General Eoyt for appellee. .Mr.
Hayden, for the
Joseph IC 3eCammon and Mr. Jame8A
naval captors, were on his brief.
MR.JusTIcE McKE XA delivered the opinion of the court.
The Newfoundland, a British steamship, was seized off the
coast of Cuba on 19th July, 1898, by the United States ship
of war Mayflower, on the groud that she was trying to violate the blockade of Havana. She was sent to Charleston,
South Carolina, and there libelled with her crgo as prize of
war. Testimony was taken in preparatoro,and the court
determined it to be insufficient for condemnation; and on motion of the attorney for the United States ordered further
proof.
Upon that proof a decree was entered condemning and forfeiting the ship and cargo, and they were ordered to be sold.
From the decree this appeal is prosecuted. The assignments
of error may be reduced to two contentions:
1. That the court erred in making an oMer for further
proof because the testimony taken in preparatorioafforded no
legal foundation for doubt, or proof of any overt act to justify
the condemnation of the ship.
2. That the -additional testimony taken still left the evidence insufficient for condemnation.
(1.) Of -the testimony taken inpreyaratoriothe court said:
"Taking the testimony which alone is now before the court,
there is nothing in it which shows or tends to-show .that the
Newfoundland, at the time of capture or at any other time,
was heading for the port of Havana or any other port."
And further:
"So far as its examination has extended, no case has been
found where a sentence of condemnation was passed upon
such a state of facts.as is presented in this record. How far

THE NEWFOUNDLANTD.
Opinion of the Court.

short the cases cited fall in showing cause for .conddmnation,
the circumstances hereinabove recited demonstrate. These
circumstances do no more than create a suspicion that there
was an intention to enter a Cuban port in violation of the
blockade; but suspicion, however well founded, is not proof,
and cannot be accepted in any court in place of evidence.
"There must be some overt act denoting an attempt to do
the thing forbidden, some fact in addition to the proved intention to commit the infraction, which shows that the unlawful
intent is persisted in and is being carried into execution.
"As this court has in a recent case had occasion to reriark,
the testimony in preparatoriorarely affords opportunity for
such proof. From the master's testimony it appears that
Commander Mackenzie informed him that he had information, through a letter from the American consul at Halifax,
that the Newfoundland sailed with intention to run the blockade. The court can form no opinion as to the probable weight
of such testimony. 'It also hppears that Commander Mackenzie thought the movements and conduct of th Newfoundland
on the night of the capture suspicious. The court has personal acquaintance with CommAnder Mackenzie, and knows
that in character, intelligence and attainments .he is the peer
of any officer of the navy; bdt,-highly as it values his opinion,
it cannot accept it in lieu of proof; it furnishes ground for
ordering further evidence."
It is urged by counsel for appellants that the court, therefore, based its order for further proof upon Commander Mackenzie's opinion, which, even if otherwise competent, was
not in evidence. We, however, do not so interpret the remarks of the court. It is explicitly stated that the circumstances created a suspicion of an intention on the part of the
ship to enter a Cuban port, but that the suspicion was insufficient for condemnation without some proof in addition showing an overt act, which, as testimony in preparatoriorarely
afforded, further proof was ordered.
This was not an abuse of discretion, and is clearly within
the ruling of The Sir Tilliam Peel, 5 Wall. 517, 534. In
that case the court said the preparatory proof, which con-

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

sisted of the depositions of the master of the ship, the mate
and one seamen, "clearly requirel restitution" of the ship,
and, declaring the rule, said, through Chief Justice Chase,
that "Regularly ' in cases of prize no evidence is admissible
on the first hearing, except that which comes from the ship,
either in the papers or the testimony of persons found on
board.
"If upon this evidence the case is not sufficiently clear to
-warrant condemnation or restitution, oppbrtunity is given
by the court, either of its own'accord or upon motion and
proper grounds-shown, to introduce additional evidence under
an order for further proof." 1
(2.) For a statement of the case we may quote from the
They clearly marshal and
opinions of. the District Court.
review all inculpating and exculpating circumstances, and
give the impressions of the court of the character of witnesses the most important -of 'whom testified in its presence.
From the first opinion rendered on the testimony taken in
preparatorio a's follows: The Newfoundland '"cleared from
Halifax, Nova Scotia, July 8, 1898, for Kingston, Jamaica,
and Vera Cruz, Mexico. She carried a cargo of flour, pork,
corn, wheat and canned goods shipped by David Robertson
& Co. Bills of lading were issued to them for 4386 packages
for Kingston, and 37-47 for Vera Cruz. These bills of lading
are indorsed by them in blank. The charter party was for
a voyage of three months to ports of the' United States,
West Indies, Central and South America, etc., in the customary printed form, and written therein was ' including open
Cuban ports, no contraband of war to be shipped,' and was
to terminate at Halifax. Musgrave & Co. were the charterers.
"It appears from the master's testimony that he was instructed by the charterers to follow the directions of the
shippers of the cargo, and he received from Robertson & Co.,
through the former captain, verbal instructions to clear for
Kingston and Vera Cruz, and to proceed with all haste to
the north coast of Cuba, and to enter either the port of Sagua
la Grande or Caibairien, but on no account to- enter any

THE NEWFOUNDLAND.

."101

Opinion of the Court.

blockaded port, and if he found the ports of Sagua and
Caibairien blockaded, to proceed to Kingston and wire for
instructions. it seems clear from this testimony that it was
the intention of the shippers that the cargo was to be landed
at Sagua or Caibairien, where the master was instructed that
he wofild be met by pilots, and that Kingston and Vera Cruz
were 'contingent' or provisional destinations. Neither Sagua
nor Caibairien were included among the Cuban ports in either
of the President's proclamations notifying a blockade.
"The Newfoundland sailed from Halifax on July 9. Her
speed is about eight -knots; her registered tonnage, 567 tons.
She-steered for the ' Crooked Inland .Passage' in the Bahamas.
Passing thence into:the ' Old 'Baharda Channel' and going
in the direction of Sagua and Caibairien, she re'ached a point
northwestwardly from Keuvitas, on the north coast of Cuba,
where she was stopped by the United States ship of war
Badger at 12.45 A.M. on Monday, July 18. Her papers were
examined by the boarding officer, who informed the master
.that the whole island of Cuba was blockaded, and was allowed
to proceed upon her course.
"The island of Jamaica lies almost due south from Neuvitas, which, being about two hundred miles from the eastern
end of the island of Cuba, it is contended that the Newfoundland should at that point have changed her course and proceeded eastward around Cape Maysi and thence to Kingston.
This, unddubtedly, would have been the shortest course, and
if Kingston was the destination the sailing westward from
Neuvitas would have carried the ship many hundreds of miles
out of her course. It may be here observed that on the log
book kept by the mate the line at the head of each page up to
and including Monday, 18th July, is ' Journal from Halifax,
N. S., towards Kingston and Vera Cruz.' On Tuesday, 19th
July, the head line is ' Journal from Halifax, N. S., towards
Vera Cruz and Kingston.' If after reaching Neuvitas there
was an intention to go to Vera Cruz, the westwardly course
would be-themost direct."
From the second opinion on final hearing, as follows:
"Lieutenant Evans, in command of the U. S. S. Tecumseh,

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

testifies that about 5 o'clock in the afternoon of July 19, while
on his station in the first blockading squadron, six or eight
miles to the north and eastward of Havana light and about
three and a half railes from the nearest shore, he sighted the
"Newfoundland moving towards him on a westerly course;
that he immediately stood towards her at. full speed, about
ten knots, and overhauled her, sending his mate aboafd to
examine her papers. He estimates his position at the time as
being latitude 23.15 north; longitude 82.13, and on a diagram
prepared by the navigating officer of the Mayflower, and
offered in evidence, he fixes her position as. being unquestionably within a dotted -circle; 'thinks that it was about the
centre of the circle, but having taken no measurements at the
time would not undertake to fix it closer than within three
miles. He fixes the hour of boarding at 5.35, and says that
he left her 'in the vicinity of 6 o'clock,' she bearing off on a
course about west by half north. 'Mate Nickerson, of the
Tecumseh, fixes her position at the time of sighting. thle Newfoundland at six to eight miles from Morro light and about
three and a half to .four miles from the nearest shore, the
Newfoundland being at that time about nine miles to the
northward- and eastward, sailing west, the Tecumseh sailing
about four miles to overhaul her. He fixes the hour of boarding at 5.35 exactly, *andsays that he returned aboard his ship
about 5.50. He failed to enter upon the log of the Newfoundland the hour of boarding, as is usually and always should be
done. He locates the point of boarding upon the diagram as
does Lieutenant Evans; saw the Newfoundland for about ten
minutes after she stood off one or two points to the north of
west, and says 'it began to settle down dusk then.'
"Ensign Pratt of the Mayflower, whose*watch began at 8
o'clock, testifies that about 8.20 he picked up a small light
bearing north by west from him; .reported the same to the
commanding officer, who ordered the ship headed for it north
by west and the engines rung ahead full speed. Shortly after.
heading for it the light was lost, but, standing on the same
couise about twenty minutes and putting on forced draft, the
light was picked up again a little to the westward. Altering

THE NEWFOUNDLAND.
Opinion of the Court.

his course and heading north-northwest, the light shortly disappeared again. He gradually changed his course to the
westward until he headed about northwest, standing on that
course about thirty minutes, still not seeing the light, when,
about 9.10, he sighted it again, bearing southwest on his port
beam and inshore; headed for it again and stood on until
about 9.30, when the light was seen outshore of him on his
starboard beam, and headed for it again and came up with
her at 10 o'clock. From subsequent developments it is clear
that the light thus described was that of a lantern hanging on
the wall of the companionway in the after deck-house of the
Newfoundland, visible only when nearly abeam through the
doors on either side. It would be open only to about tbree
fourths of a point-of the compass, and the Mayflower at full'
speed, making at times sixteen miles an hour, would pass the
point of visibility, until by changing her course it would again
become visible and be picked up, first on one quarter, then on
the other. When the light was first -seen the Mayflower was
heading east-northeast and the light was bearing north by
west from her, 4 point forward of the port beam, and estimated to be from two to three miles distant. No other lights
were seen on the Newfoundland 'until she was overhauled.
At that time all of the regulation lights were found to be
burning brightly.
"Lieutenant Culver, navigating officer of the Mayflower,
describes the chase substantially as above, and exhibits a tracing made on July 20, showing the estimated positions of the
respective vessels at the time when the -light was first discovered and at the time of the capture and the course sailed
by each.
"Commander Mackenzie, of the- Mayflower, was the senior
officer of the blockade off Havana ' The ,Mayflower covered
about five points of the compass on the bearing from Morro
light, and had been on that station during the month of July.
He says that about 8.30 a faint light was reported about fiorth
by west of him, which he thought was a plain lantern. He
describes the chase and locates the positions of the two vessels on the tracing prepared by Lieutenant Culver: From this

104

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

testimony and upon this diagram it would appear that, the
Newfoundland when boarded by the Tecumseh was at a point
within a circle whose centre is ten and three fourths miles from
Morro light, whose bearing was southwest one half west.
"The testimony from the Newfoundland relating to the
same matter will ijow be stated.
"Captain Malcolm, the master, says that he was boarded
by the mate of the Tecumseh fourteen miles off shore -off
the nearest land -while sailing on a westward course. that
the boarding officer, after examining his papers, advised him
not to go any nearer the land lest he should get a shell intohim, and left him at 6.30; that thereafter he stood on a course
one point north of west until 8 o'clock, when the Havana light
bore about south by west, and from that time he put his ship
back on a course due west, which he followed until boarded by
the Mayflower. He exhibits a chart, on which he has marked
his course, and says that at 8.30 he passed Havana light, being
seventeen and one half miles from it; that at 10 o'clock, when
boarded by the Mayflower, he .was twenty-one miles from
Havana light, which bore then southeast by south half south.
"Salkus, the mate of the Newfoundland, testifies to the
boarding by the Tecumseh at 6.10, and that the Havana lighthouse and Morro Castle were not visible; that they started on
their course at 6.30, and at 8.30 were abreast of Havana light,
which bore south about sixteen or seventeen miles. In explanation of the entry in his log he says that he took no bearings
at the time of the entry, and knew that the ship was farther
off than ten miles. He says that at the time of the capture
Morro light was not visible from the bridge, but that he saw
itfrom the compass pole, fifteen feet above the bridge.
"Payne, the engineer, testified to the boarding by the Tecumseh at 6.10, and his log contains an entry showing that
the engines stopped at 6.10 and started again at 6.30.
"It thus appears that there is a wide divergence in the testimony as to the point at which the Newfoundland was when
boarded by the Tecumseh, and some divergence as to the time
of such boarding.
"Lieutenant Evans and-his mate fixed this location within

THE NEWFOUNDLAND.
Opinion of the Court.

a circle whose radius is three miles. They say that they are
certain as to her location within three miles, and believe that
she was about the centre of that circle, which is ten and a
half miles from Morro light. Captain Malcolm and his mate
fix the location at a point twenty-four miles from Morro light,
thirteen and a half miles from the centre of the circle above
referred to, and ten and a half miles from that point of the
circle nearest to the Newfoundland.
"There is a marked discrepancy, and the first point to be
decided is which is correct. Applying the usual tests by which
testimony is weighed -the intelligence of the witnesses, their
opportunities for knowing. the truth, the likelihood of error
arising from considerations of interest, and other influences
which commonly sway men's minds -there can be no doubt
that there is a preponderance of probability in favor of that
side which, having no interest in the controversy, has the
greater opportunity of knowledge.
"Lieutenant Evans and his mate were on cruising grounds
with which they.were familiar. There could be no difficulty
in ascertaining their position from the bearing bf Morro, whibh
was in plain sight day and night. They were within three or
four miles of the shore, with well-defined objects from whichbearings could be had. It was their manifest duty to know
where they were, for they had to keep within certain .prescribed limits. They are men of education, character and intelligence, and their testimony cannot be discredited without
imputing to them a reckless carelessness for which there is no
warrant.
"Neither Captain Malcolm nor his mate were familiar with
the locality; the former had once before been to Havana; the
latter, never. Their interest is obvious. I have no difficulty
in coming to the conclusion that the preponderance of evidence fixes the position of the Newfoundland within the
described circle when boarded by the Tecumseh. I am not so
clear as to the time. The mate Nickerson fixes it at 5.35 precisely, and says that he returned to the Tecumseh at 5.50, but
he says that he watched the Newfoundland for about ten
minutes after she left, when ' it began to settle down dusk.'

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

"The sun set in that latitute on that day about 6.30, and
there is little twilight.
"The officers of the Newfoundland fix the hour of boarding
at 6.10 and the time bf departure at 6.30, and these figures are
entered upon the engineer's log. This log has been in possession of the claimant since the capture, and some erasures
appear in another part which may hereafter call for comment,
and it therefore cannot be accepted as absolute verity; but
giving the ship the benefit of the reasonable doubt which the
testimony warrants, assuming that she sailed at 6.30, she is
nexKt seen by Ensign Pratt about 8.20, when he sighted a smalllight bearing north by west from the Mayflower, whose station on the cruising ground lay next west of the Tecumseh,
and whose position at that time was about six miles north by
west from Morro light. This small light was estimated to be
about two or three miles from the Mayflower. The mate
of the Newfoundland made this -entry upon her log: '8.30,
Havana light bearing south ten miles.' If this testimony is
taken as true, this would place the Newfoundland at a point
seven miles from the centre of the circle adopted as the point
of departure, and ten miles from the extreme western circumference of it, and it would follow that she had consumed two
hours in making that distance. As her spded during her voyage was on an average nearly eight knots an hour, there is a
considerable margin of time to be accounted for, which she
endeavors to do by fixing her location at 8.30 at a point seventeen miles from Havana. This is the testimony of her master,
and the mite concurs in it, saying that the entry in his log
was not an accurate statement of the ship's ,position at that
time; that it was only intended to show that she was at least
ten miles from Havana light. It is not necessary to discuss
nor decide now how far a ship is concluded by the entries in
her log. If the party making such entry is shown to have
been drunk at the time or habitually careless, or if made in a
perfunctory way, without observations or the opportunity of
observation, little weight might be given it; but the log being
intended to be a correct record of the facts contained therein,
an entry made with full knowledge and opportunity of ascer-

THE NEWFOUNDLAND.
Opinion of the Court.

taining the truth must be accepted as the truth if it tells
against the party making it, and can be denied" no more than
a deed. If it is the result of a mistake, there must be conclusive evidence of the mistake. It is sufficient to say that
such evidence has not been adduced here, and the entry upon
the log, confirmed as it is by/the testimony from the May:
flower, fixes the position of the Newfoundland at 8.30 at a
point about ten miles from the Havana light. From that
point to the point of seizure her course can be marked with
sufficient accuracy. That she sailed'on a straight course from
8.30 to 10 o'clock, and that such course led her away from the
entrance into the port of Havana, is entirely clear, whether
the point was seventeen miles from Morro light, as claimed
by the Mayflower, or twenty-one miles, as claimed by the
Newfoundland, or eighteen miles, as agreed upon by her master and Ensign Pratt as the point from which they took their
departure after the seizure, when they started upon their voyage to Charleston.
"The next incriminating charge is that the Newfoundland
was sailing without lights. Ensign Pratt, who first sighted
her, says he picked up a small light. All the witnesses from
the Mayflower describe this light as that from an ordinary
lantern, and not the masthead light. None of these witnesses
saw any of the regulation lights until they came up with her,
abdut 10 o'clock, when they were all brightly burning. After
the chase began these regulation running lights, being visible
only two points abaft the beam, would naturally not be seen.
"Coming westward from the point where she left the
Tecumseh to the 'p6int where the faint light was sighted, her
masthead light, whose visibility by the regulations is at least
five miles, should certainly have been seen if there was proper
vigilance aboard the Mayflower. That Ensign Pratt was
vigilant is demonstrated by the fact that he picked -upthe
dim light two or three miles off at 8.20. He went on duty at
8 o'clock. The officer who had the watch before that hour
was not examined, nor were the lookouts, who are described
by Commander Mackenzie as uncommonly efficient men: As
it is, the testimony leaves this question open to reasonable

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court..

doubt. While it is probable that the masthead light, if burning and not. screened, would have been visible to Ensign Pratt
at the time he descried the small light, he does not say with
certainty that it would have been, there being but a narrow
limit of visibility.
"The witnesses from the Newfoundland, including the
sailor who lit them, all testify that the lights were lit at the
usual hour and they were all burning when she was overhauled.
"Commander Mackenzie and other witnesse's from the
M yflower all testify that the small light already described
was the only one seen; that there were no stray lights, such
as are commonly seen aboard a steamer in thb night time.
"Taking the point of 'departure to be somewhere within
the circle already described and the time of departure at 6.30
and the rate of speed at nearly eight knots, and following the
courses described- west by north until 8 o'clock, and then
due west until 10. o'clock-and plotting it upon the chart, I
must conclud6, that she would have been some miles farther
west than either the point claimed by her or the point testified
to by the officers of the Mayflower as the point of capture at
10 o'clock, unless she had loitered somewhere upon her route.
"Outside the domain of the exact sciences, absolute certainty is rarely attainable, and there must always be an
element of doubt as to every transaction the proof of which
rests upon fallible human testimony, nowhere more fallible
than in estimates of location and distances upon water.
"We will now look into the character and conduct of the
Newfoundland to see whether her presence off HTvana is
consistent with innocent intent.
"She is a small steamship, lately eriiployed in the sealing
business. She sailed from Halifax, July 9, loaded with a
cargo of provisions, under command of Captain Malcolm, who
was empli ed for that voyage. She had two clearances, one
for-Kingston and one for Vera Cruz. Commander Mackenzie
testifies. that it is not the practice of any American custom
-house to give twvo clearances.' Captain.Malcolm -says that this

THE NEWFOUNDLAND.
Opinion of the Court.

is not unusual in Halifax, and that he has generally had
separate clearances for separate ports, sometimes five or six,
whenever he had cargo for each. We have no statute prescribing any regulation on this subject, and wherever a ship
has separate cargo for separate ports I can see no reason why
she should not have a clearance for each, and I am informed
that it is the custom at this port to give such separate clearances. While I cannot hold that separate clearances for
Kingston and Vera Cruz were in themselves suspicious, it is
a cause of grave and just suspicion that her real and primary
destination was to neither of those ports, as subsequent events
proved. Captain Malcolm, in his testimony in preparatorio,
said that his verbal instructions were to sail for Caibairien or
Sagua la Grande, and if those ports were blockaded to go to
Kingston and cable for orders. For reasons, into which it is
not the proviwe of this court to inquire, neither Sagua nor
Caibairien were included among the ports blockaded 'under
the proclamation of the President, and he had the right to
go to either. Whether in so doing without proper clearances
he would have incurred penalties under the municipal regulations of Great Britain or of Spain is not within the scope of
this inquiry, certain it is that -he would have committed no
offence cognizable here.
"Taking his course to the southward, he next appears off
Neuvitas, where he is boarded by Lieutenant Titus, of the
U. S. S. Badger, and is informed by him that the whole coast
of Cuba is blo~kaded. The case is not presented in an aspect
which requires any determination of the question whether
that sort of a blockade was effective or legal, as he did not
go to either Sagua or Caibairien for the purpose of testing its
validity, which he might well have done. According to his
testimony inp-epar'atorio,and it is repeated on this hearing,
he abandoned all thought df entering either of those ports
upon hearing that they were blockaded. His course, then,
should have been around the eastern end of the island of Cuba
to Kingston, by way of: Cape Maysi, for the course around
the western end, by Cape Antonio, was nearly a thousand
miles further. In these days of sharp competition intelligent

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opiinion of the Court-

men do not make such long detours in the prosecution of
legitimate business. The explanation given is that he wanted
to satisfy his charterers by showing them that he had passed
by the port to which he was directed to go, and, further, that
he apprehended that he would subject himself to suspicion
by changing his course at that time. The answer to this is
obvious. His charterers did not instruct him to go by the
ports, of Sagua and Caibairien, but to go to them, and if he
did not intend to do that his proceeding in that direction was
such a futile, time-consuming and coal-consuming venture
that it staggers credulity to- accept it as the true reason; nor
does the other reason given seem much more satisfactory.
There was nothing unlawful in his setting out for Sagua or
any other open port in Cuba, and if, after information of the
blockade, it became necessary to change his couirse in order
t6 go by the shortest route to Kingston, his contingent destination, there would have been no risk in disclosing the truth.
In this, as in most of the affairs of life, the straightforiard
course would have been the wisest course. That it was not
taken suggests the conclusion that neither Sagua nor Caibairien was the real destination. It appears from the testimony that neither at the time of capture nor afterwards was
an3ithing ever heard about Sagua or Caibairien until it came out
in the examination of Captain Malcolm before the prize commissioners. None of the other officers of the ship appear to
'have known about it. The mate seems to have thought that
they were going to Vera Cruz. In the engineer's log there
appears every day from July 9th to July 18th, inclusive, a
line at the top of the page containing the words, ' from HaliCuba.' The word 'Kingston' is
fax to Vera Cruz and written over and partially obliterat , the word ' Cuba.' There
is a blank space. before the word 'Cuba,' evidently intended
to 'be filled in. 'Havana' would about fill it. The engineer
appeared to be the most intelligent man on the ship after the
naster. From the 'entry on his log it is .plain that he knew
that the ship's destination was Cuba, and there would seem to
be no good reason why the name of the port should have been
left -blank,. if itwas Sagna or any other open port. In the

THE NEWFOUNDLAND.
*Opinion of the Court.

absence of any testimony confirming the master's statement
that his instructions were to go to Sagua'-or Caibairien, and
there being nothing in his conduct showing that that was his
real destination, I must hold it to have been a pretensive
destination, and his appearance before Havana is therefore
not satisfactorily explained.
"Lieutenant Culver, of the Mayflower, who boarded her,
says that when he asked Captain Malcolm where he was
bound he was very vague in his replies, sometimes saying
Kingston and sometimes saying Vera Cruz, and when asked
whether he was shaping his course by way of Cape San
Antonio he replied that he hadn't made up his mind.' In the
same conversation he said that he had been making eight
knots an hour from the time he was boarded by the Tecumseh
to time of overhauling. To Commander Mackenzie, on the.
Mayflower, he said he was making for Vera Cruz, if he had
coal enough, and then to Kingston. If he did not have
enough coal, he was going to Kingston in order to take on
coal. To Lieutenant Pratt, the prize master on the voyage
up to Charleston, he said that he was bound for Vera Cruz.
"Captain Malcolm says, in his testimony, that his instructions were to go to Kingston if he found the ports of Sagua
and Caibairien blockaded, and from there he was to cable for
instructions, and that Kingston was his destination; that he
had plenty of coal to get to Kingston, but not enough to go
to Vera Cruz and then Kingston.
"It must be conceded that there is no proof of any attempt
to enter the port of Havana -that is to say, no witness has
testified to seeing her heading that way. It must also be
admitted that the testimony as to loitering falls very far short
of the proof offered in the Neutralitet, the Apollo, the Charlotte Christine, the Gute lErwartung, the cases relied on by
the government."

The application of a more stringent rule to-the Newfoundland than was applied in those cases was justified by the court
on the ground that steam vessels have greater power of eluding blockades than sailing -vessels possess.
The conclusion of the court was that the evidence estab-

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

lished that the ship was loitering about the coast seeking an
opportunity to violate the blockade. Conceding, arguendo,
that this was enough for her condemnation, we think the fact
is very disputable. It is based upon the ship's nearness to the
coast, the slowness of her movements deduced from her position when the Tecumseh boarded her and when the Mayflower captured her, and the taking of a longer route to
Kingston than might hate been selected.
These circumstances may be explained consistently with
innocence. Against them the fact remains that she made no
attempt to enter any Cuban port. She sailed'by Caibairien.
She sailed by Sagua, although a railroad connected it with
Havana, and made it inviting to contraband enterprise. And
she had sailed beyond Havana when she was captured. But
it is argued she must have loitered, and with guilty intention
because she ran only twelve miles in three hours, when she
ought to have run twenty-four miles.
In this conclusion there are disputes of fact as well as disputes of inference. It depends upon the time it was and
where she was when the Tecumseh boarded her -the time it
was and where she was when the Mayflower seized her; and
granting a decision of these as contended for by the Government, there are the elements of a varying course in the night
and the retarding influence of the current to account for the
time.
The fact of going around Cuba to Kingston instead of turning back after she *as boarded by the Tecumseh, is from our
present view not completely accounted for. But our situation,
it must be remembered, was not Captain Malcolm's situation.
It was his view, he testified, of his duty to his employers. It
was his way to avoid exciting the suspicion of the off[c'rs of
the Tecumseli; and, in another place, without peril or responsibility for that or some other decision, we are -not prepared
to say that it is necessarily proof of guilt. After experience
it is often easy to see that something else should have been
done than that which was done, but judging Captain Malcolmin his situation, was there not presented to him a fair conflict
.of reasons? It is very certain, if doubt came to him what

THE NEWFOUNDLAID.

113-

Opinion of the Court.

to do, he would avoid the hazard of the seizure of his ship -at
the comparatively small sacrifice of the coal and time Wihich
would be consumed by going to Kingston the longei wxy.
It is further urged that when the Newfoundland was seen
and pursued by the Mayflbwer she had not hek usual lights
displayed. This, the District Court said, the testilnony left
in reasonable doubt. "While it is probable," it was said,
11that the masthead light, if burning and not screened, would
have been visible to Ensign Pratt at the time he descried the
small light, he does fot say with certainty that it would have.
been, there being but a narrow limit of possibility.". The
limit was as narrow to all other officers of the pursuing vessel
and the possibilities it afforded must be considered as at least
balanced by the positive testimony of all on board of the
Newfoundland, including tie sailor who lit them at the 'usual
hour, and the fact that they were all burning when she was
overhauled.
But it may be said that the ship has too many suspicious
circumstances to account for, and that we overlook the probative strength arising from their number and theirconcurrence;
that if each one standing alone can be explained, all.together
unerringly point to the guilt of the ship. We appreciate the
force of the argument, but cannot carry it so far. And yet
we have no desire to impair the effectiveness of blockades by
declaring a more indulgent rule than that of prior cases nor
permit experiment with opporRunities to break into blockaded
ports. But there should be some tangible proof of such intention -a more definite demonstration than this record exhibits. As we have already seen, the learned trial judge was
constrained to say "that the testimony as to loitering falls
very far short of the proof offered in the Neutralitet, the
Apollo, the Charlotte Christine, the Gute Erwartwig, the
cases relied on by the government. Their application, however, to the case at bar, whose facts "fall far short" of their
facts, is insisted on because of the difference between the
power of steam vessels and the power, of sailing vessels.
Undoubtedly there is a difference, but.if steam has increased the
power of blockade runners, it has increased in greater degree
VOL. CLXXVI-8

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Statement of the, Case.

when conjoined with the range of modern ordnance, the power
of blockade defenders. We recently had occasion to consider
their power, and decide that a single modern cruiser might
make a blockade effective. The Olinde Rodriguez, 174 U. S.
510.
The question in this case, then, is as to the. adequacy of the
proof, and we do not think it attains that degree which affords
a reasonable assurance of the justice of the sentence of forprobable
feiture. It raises doubts and suspicions -makes
cause for the capture of the ship and justification of her
captors, but not forfeiture. The Olinde Rodriguez, supra.
It follows, therefore, that the decree of the District Court
must be reversed and the cause remanded, with directions
to enter a decree restoringthe veisel and cargo, or if they
have been sold, the _roceeds of the sale, but without damages or costs, and it is so ordered.

CLARK v. KANSAS CITY.ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF KANSAS.
No. 268. Argued November 18, 1899. -Deeded

January 15, 1900.

The provision in section 1 of chapter 74 of the Laws of Kansas of 1891,
authorizing certain first-class cities to take in described tracts of land in
territory adjoining or'touching the city limits and make them a part of
the city by ordinance, and providing that "nothing in this act shall be
taken or held to apply to any tract or tracts of land used for agricultural
purposes, when the same is not owned by any railroad or other corporation" does not conflict with any provision of the Constitution of the
United States, when exercised by such a city to take in lands belonging
to a railroad company which are not used for agricultural purposes, but
are occupied by the.company for railroad purposes.

TmIs case was here once before on writ of error to review a
judgment of the Supreme Court of Kansas reversing a judgmnent of the isi yrius court, sustaining a demurrer to the
petition of plaintiffs. Clark v. Kansas City, 172 U. S. 334.

