,

WRIGHT v. COLUMBUS &c. RAILROAD CO.

481

Syllabus.

company, it does not lie in the mouth of the plaintiff to complain. This disposes of every question called to our attention
in the briefs of counsel.
The plaintiff is amply protected by the decree of the Supreme
Court enjoining the railroad company from enterlg upon his
lands until payment has been made, after proper proceedings,
for the increased burden caused by the use of the lands for
the railroad: If any taking of the lands consequent upon the
remanding of the cause for the purpose stated should suggest
ulterior questions they do not arise there, and would not be
concluded by an affirmance of the decree now before us for
review.
The decree appealed from is therefore
Afirmed.
VOUGHT V.COLUMBUS, HOCKING VILLEY A xD ATHENS RAILROAD

ComPAxY. Error to the Supreme Court of the State of Ohio.
No. 92. Submitted February 26, 1900.
MR. JusTIcE BRowN delivered the opinion of the court.
This was also a petition by a land owner for damages which he
avers will be caused by the abandonment of the canal. The case
took the same course as the case of Tralsh, and the same judgment
was rendered. So far as the constitutional question is concerned,
the cases are precisely alike, and the judgment is accordingly
Affirmed.
This was submitted with No. 90, ante, 469, and by-the same
counsel.

WRIGHT v. COLU.MBUS,

HOOKING VALLEY AND

ATHENS RAILROAD COMPANY.
'ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF OHIO.
No. 91.

Submitted December 18, 1S99. - Decided February 26, 1900.

The Federal question set up in the assignment of errors is precisely the
same as the one set up in No. 90, ante, 469, and No. 92, ante, 481, and being
the only one called to the attention of the court by counsel, those cases
are followed in this.
VOL. CLxxvI-31

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Statement of the Case.

THIS was also a petition in the same court to enjoin the
railroad company from entering upon or taking possession
of the canal property and constructing a railroad thereon,
but in certain particulars differs from the case already considered.
Plaintiff averred that he is the owner in fee simple of a
certain tract of land in the county of Hocking, through and
along which said canal passes; that he is also the owner of a
mill, located on said land on the south side of the canal, which
is now and has been for many years past operated by water
power supplied by the canal; that such mill was originally
constructed before the location and construction of the focking Canal, and was run and operated by water power from
the Hocking River until the canal was constructed, when it
became necessary to appropriate the Hocking River and the
water power which had been used to supply his. mill for the
purposes of the canal; that at that time the land and the mill
were owned by one Worthington, who entered into a contract
with the State, by which the latter agreed to enlarge and forever maintain the dam across the Hocking River above the
grist mill, in order to afford an ample supply of water, in
consideration of his granting to 'the State the right to construct the canal through his lands; that the canal was constructed and the dam built in pursuance of such contract, and
that all the water power necessary to operate the mill has
been supplied from the said canal and the Hocking River up
to the present time; that the plaintiff is the present owner
of the land by deeds from Worthington, and that the grist
mill has been supplied by such power from the Hocking River
and the canal from the date of the construction of the canal,
a period of fifty-seven years; that, relying upon such contract, he has made improvements and repairs upon said mill,
,put the same in excellent condition, and is doing a large
and profitable business; that, if the defendant is permitted to
enter upon the canal and construct its railroad, the water
power will be cut off and destroyed, and the property rendered
of little value; that he is also the owner of other lands on
both sides of the canal for a long distance, to the amount of

WRIGHT v. COLUMBUS &c. RAILROAD CO.

483

Opinion of the Court.

a thousand acres, and that the construction of the railroad
will place increased burdens upon his lands, and cut off and
destroy his access to parts of them through the highways,
and that he will be deprived of watering privileges for his
stok.
A general demurrer was filed to this petition, which was
sustained by the court and the petition dismissed. Plaintiff
appealed to the Circuit Court, which also sustained the
demurrer and dismissed the petition. Whereupon plaintiff
appealed the case to the Supreme Court of the State, which
affirmed the judgment of the Circuit Court, whereupon plaintiff sued out a writ of error from this court.
.M .. J. B. Foraker, XM.
for plaintiffs in error.

T. E. Powell and _Y'. D.

. Ryan

.M. D. L. Sleeper, -Yr. C. H. Gro&venor and Mr. John J.
Stoddart for defendant in error.
M . JusTion BnowN delivered the opinion of the court.

Plaintiff insisted before the Supreme Court that he made
the improvements on his mill with reference to the contract
between the State and the Federal Government, but the Supreme Court was of opinion that he had no legal right to
make investments on the faith of a contract between others
to which he was not a party or privy, and insist for that reason the contract should be observed by either of the parties;
that, so far as related to the contract between Worthington
and the State, his remedy would be in damages for breach of
the contract, and not an injunction against the company entering upon the lands purchased from the State in which he had
no interest, The decree against him was therefore affirmed.
The Federal question set up in the assignment of errors was
precisely the same as in the other cases, and the issues which
arise from such assignments are the only ones called to our
attention by counsel. The judgment of the Supreme Court
Affirmed.
is therefore

