WALSH v. COLUMBUS &c. RAILROAD C0.

469

Statement of the Case.

in the treaty as entitled to enter, then that person is entitled to
admission without the certificate.
These views lead to the affirmance of the judgments, and
Afirmed.
they are accordingly

WALSH v. COLUMBUS, HOOKING VALLEY AND
ATHENS RAILROAD COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE SUIREME COURT Or THE -STATE OF OHIO.
No. 90. Submitted December 13, 1899. -Decided February 26,1900.
By an act of Congress passed in 1828, a large quantity of land was granted
to the State of Ohio for the construction of canals. The act provided
that such canals, "when completed or used, shall be, and forever remain,
public highways, for the use of the Government of the United States."
The grant was accepted by the State; but in 1894, the state legislature
authorized the abandonment of certain canals, which had been constructed under the act of Congress, and the leasing of the same to a railroad company.
Held, that there was reason to claim that the act of 1894 impaired the obligation of the previous contract between the State and the Federal Government, and that a Federal question was thereby raised.
Held, further, that in accepting the Congressional land grant of 1828, there
was no undertaking on the part of the State to maintain the canals as
such in perpetuity, and that the Government was only entitled to. their
free use as long as they were kept up as public highways, and that the
act of the legislature of Ohio, authorizing their abandonment as canals
and leasing them to a railway company, did no violence to the contract
clause of the Constitution.
Held further, that a private property owner was no party to the contract
between the State and the Federal Government, and stood in no position
to take advantage of a default of the State in respect to its contract.
His rights were entirely subsidiary to those of the Government, and if
the latter chose to acquiesce in the abandonment of the canals, he had
no right to complain.

was a petition filed in the Court of Common Pleas of
Franklin County, Ohio, by the plaintiff Walsh, to enjoin the
defendant railroad company from entering upon the property
of the Lancaster Lateral Canal Company, and upon plaintiff's
premises, and from constructing a railroad thereon, and for
THIS

4%'
6176 657J

OCTOBER TERM,- 1899.
Statement of the Case.

a decree declaring a certain act of the General Assembly of
Ohio giving it permission to do so to be null and void.
The case was determined upon deinurrei' to the petition,
which set forth, substantially, the following facts: On February 4, 1825, the General Assembly of the State passed "an
act to provide for the' internal improvement of the State of
Ohio, by navigable canals," 23 Ohio Stat. 50, among which
was the Ohio Canal, extending from the mouth of the Scioto
River through the State of Ohio to Lake Erie, and passing
through the village of Carroll in the county of Fairfield. On
February 8, 1826, the Lancaster Lateral Cafial Company was
incorporated by act of the General Assembly, 24 Ohio Laws,
71, and authorized to construct and operate a canal "from
the town of Lancaster to such point of the Ohio Canal as
shall be found most eligible." :The village of Carroll was
fixed upon as the ,terminus.
On May 24, 1828, Congress passed an act to aid the State
of Ohio in the construction of its canals, 4 Stat. 305, by the
fifth section of which act (printed in full in the margin)' Congress granted to the State 500,000 acres of land in that State
for-this purpose, with a proviso that "the said canals, when
completed or used. shall be, and forever remain, public highI Se. 5. And be itfurther enacted, That there be, and hereby is, granted
to the State of Ohio flive hundred thousand acres of the lauds owned by the
United States, within the said State, to be selected as hereinafter directed,
for the purpose of aiding the State of Ohio in the payment of the debt, or
the interest thereon, which has heretofore been, or which may hereafter be,
contracted by said State in the construction of the canals within the same,
undertaken under the authority of the laws of said State, now in force, or
that may hereafter be enacted, for the extensions of canals now making;
which land, when selected, shall be disposed of by the legislature of Ohio,
for that purpose, and no other: Provided, The said canals, when completed
or used, shall be, and forever remain, public highways, for the use of the
Government of the United States free from any toll or charge whatever, for
any property of the United States, or persons in their service passing along
the same: And provided further, That the said canals, already commenced,
shall be completed In seven years from the approval of this act, otherwise
the State of Ohio shall stand bound to pay over to the United States the
amount which any lands sold ny her, within that time, may have brought;
but the validity of the titles derived from the State by such sales shall not
be affected by that failure.

WALSH v. COLUMBUS &c. RAILROAD CO.

471

Statement of the Case.

ways, for the use of the Government of the United States,
free from any toll or charge whatever, for any property of
the United States, or persons in their service passing along
the same." The seventh section of the act declared that "this
act shall take effect, provided, the legislature of Ohio, at the
first session thereof, hereafter to commence, shall express the
assent of the State to the several provisions and conditions
hereof; and unless such expression of assent shall be made,
this act shall be wholly inoperative."
Pursuant to this act, the General Assembly of the State of
Ohio on December 22, 1828, passed an act expressly declaring
the assent of the State to the provisions and conditions of the
act of Congress. Under these acts the State received and took
possession of the 500,000 acres of land provided by the grant,
and from time to time sold and disposed of the same, and
received from the proceeds of such sale somewhat more than
$2,200,000.
The Lancaster Lateral Canal Company, incorporated as
above stated, proceeded to construct and operate its canal
under its charter until December 22, 1838, when it sold and
conveyed the same to the State of Ohio, under an authority
conferred upon the Board of Public Works, by an act passed
March 9, 1838, for the sum of $61,241, which was. paid to the
company out of the funds realized by the State from the sale
of the Congressional land grant. The canal was subsequently,
under an act of the legislature, extended from its terminus
in Lancaster to the town of Athens, in Athens County, was
opened as h continuous line of canal for navigation purposes
prior to January 1, 1842, and this extension was also paid for
by moneys realized from the sale of the land grant.
The complaint further averred that "ever since the construction of said canal, which -is and has been known as the
Hocking Canal, the same has been, and still is, a public highway, which has been used for the use of the State of Ohio and
the Government of the United States, in pursuance of the several acts of Congress and of the General Assembly of the State
of Ohio, hereinbefore set forth."
On April 12, 1894, the Columbus, Hocking Valley and

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Statement of the Case.

Athens Railroad Company, defendant herein, was organized
and incorporated for the purpose of building a railroad from
the city of Columbus through the counties of Franklin, Fairfield, Hocking and Athens to the city of Athens, and on the
18th day of May, 1894, the General Assembly of the State
passed an act for the abandonment of the Hocking Canal for
canal purposes and for leasing the same to this railroad company. (91 Ohio Stat. 327.) The act is printed in full in the
margin.' The fourth section of the act provided that the rail1 An act to provide for the abandonment of the Hocking Canal for canal
purposes and for leasing the same to the Columbus, Hocking Valley
and Athens Railroad Company.
SEcTIoN 1. Be it enacted by the General Assembly of the State of Ohio,
That the iocking Canal, from its junction with the Ohio Canal in the village
of Carroll, Fairfield County, to its southeastern terminus in the village of
Nelsorville, Athens County, be and the same hereby is abandoned for canal
purposes, and the same shall not be used for canal purposes during the
pending of the lease provided in the next section of this act.
SEC. 2. There is hereby granted the right, franchise and privilege of constructing, maintaining and operating over, upon and along the Hocking
Canal and property of the State of Ohio adjacent thereto, a railroad with
single or double tracks, side tracks, switches, bridges, stations and other
structures usual and incidental to the operation of a railroad, to the Columbus, Hocking Valley and Athens Railroad Company, its successors and
assigns, for the term of ninety-nine years, renewable forever, for and in
consideration of the payment by said company, its successors or assigns,
to the treasurer of the State of Ohio on the first day of July, 1894, of the sum
of fifty thousand dollars, and on thu first day of January, 1900, and of each
and every year thereafter, during the term of this lease, of the sum of ten
thousand dollars annual rental.
SEc. 3. Said instalment of fifty thousand dollars shall be paid into the
state treasury before the construction of said railroad is begun, and for
the remaining instalments of rental the State of Ohio shall have a first lien
upon said railroad, together with its switches, side tracks, bridges and
other structures erected on said property of the State of Ohio, which shall
be superior to any and all other liens of every kind upon the same. The
said Columbus, Hocking Valley and Athens Railroad Company shall further
execute unto the State of Ohio, to be approved by the auditor of state, secretary of state and attorney general, or any two of them, a good and sufficient bond in tlhe sum of one hundred thousand dollars conditioned that
said company will faithfully build said railroad in compliance with the condition and terms of this act, and upon failure to build said road within the
time herein specified, they shall be liable to the State of Ohio in the full
sum of one hundred thousand dollars as stipulated damages. Said bond

WALBSII v. COLUMBUS &c. RtAILROAD CO.

4'73

Statement of the Case.

road company should have the exclusive right during the
term of the lease (ninety-nine years) "to use and occupy
the property aforesaid, or so much thereof as may be necessary, for the purpose of constructing, maintaining and operating the railroad thereon. Said company shall not disturb
any vested rights or privileges of abutting property holders
along said canal, and shall hold the State harmless from all
loss or damage resulting to such property holders by reason
of the construction and operation of said railroad."
The plaintiff further averred that the dsfendant was making preparations to build its road. upon the line of the canal,
and was threatening to take possession of its property without having acquired the rights and interests in the said
lands and tenements belonging to the plaintiff, whose lands
are'located, on both -sides of the Hocking Canal, about five
miles north of the city of Lancaster, in Fairfield Coutity, and
without "having purchased or acquired by' condemnation- or
otherwise the right to enter upon said lands and to construct
said railroad. That such road will constitute a permanent
trespass upon plaintiffs property, and will place large addishall be executed and filed with the secretary of state within ten days after
the passage of this act.
Sze. 4. In consideration of the payments aforesaid, said' railroad company, its successors and assigns,'shall have the exclusive right during the
term aforesaid to use and occupy the property aforesaid, or so much
thereof as may be necessary, for the purpose of constructing, maintaining
and operating a railroad thereon. Said company shall not disturb any
vested rights.or privileges of abutting property holders along said canal,
and shall hold the State harmless from all loss or damage resulting to such
property holders by reason of the construction and operation of said railroad: .Provided,That when said railroad, its successors and assigns, cease
to use said canal for railroad purposes, said canal property shall revert to
the State for canal purposes.
SEC. 5. This act shail not be construed to prevent the levying and collecting of taxes on said railroad in the same manner as they are levied and
collected on other railroad property in this State.
SEC. 6. The work of constructing said railroad shall be commenced within
six months after the passage of this act, and the same shall be completed
within two years thereafter.
SEC. 7. This act shall take effect and be in force from and after its
passage.

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

tional burdens upon his lands, which will render the same
inconvenient and difficult of access; and great and irreparable injury will be done in the premises unless the defendant be
restrained by an order of the court from taking possession of
said canal and the said premises of plaintiff and constructing
the railroad thereon.
The gist of the complaint lies in the allegation that the act
of May 18, 1894, authorizing the abandonment of the canal,
conflicts with that clause of the Constitution which provides
that "no State shall pass any law impairing the obligation of
contracts," and also with several provisions of the constitution
of Ohio not necessary to be here enumerated.
A general demurrer was filed to this petition, which was
sustained by the court and the petition dismissed. Plaintiff
appealed the case to the Circuit Court, which also sustained
the demurrer, whereupon plaintiff appealed the case to the
Supreme Court of the State, which reversed the judgment of
the Circuit Court, and ordered that the railroad company be
enjoined from entering upon the lands of the plaintiff until
it had condemned and paid for the additional burden of constructing and operating the railroad on the land according to
law. 58 Ohio St. 123.
Upon motion of the plaintiff the court certified that, in the
rendition of this judgment it became material to determine
whether the act of May 18, 1894, was repugnant to the contract clause of the Constitution, and ordered it to be further
certified that the court adjudged that it was not in violation
of or repugnant to such clause, and that such act was valid
and binding upon the plaintiff. Whereupon plaintiff sued
out a writ of error from this court.
Xr. J. B. Foraker, Mr. T. E. Powell and -Yr. D. J, Ryan
for plaintiffs in error.
.X. D. L. fSleejer, Xr. C. H Groavenor and -Mr. John J.
Stoddart for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE. BRowae, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.

WALSH v. COLUMBUS &c. RAILROAD CO.

475

Opinion of the Court.
1. Motion was made to dismiss the writ of error in t6~is
case for want of a Federal question. The decision of this
motion was postponed to the merits, and we are now of
opinion that it must be denied.
The position of the plaintiff is that, the act of Congress of
May 24, 1828, granting to the State of Ohio 500,000 acres of
land for the construction of canals, and providing that such
canals, "when completed or used, shall be, and forever rem*ain,
public highways, for the use of the Government of the United
States," and the acceptance thereof, by the General Assembly, constitute a contract by the State for the perpetual maintenance of such canals as public highways, at least until they
were given up by consent of the United States, and that the
subsequent act of the General Assembly of May 18, 1894, providing for the abandonment of such canals, without such consent being given, was obnoxious to that provision of the Federal
Constitution declaring that no State. shall pass a law impairing
the obligation of contracts.
The main question then is, whether the acceptance of this
act of Congress of -1828 by the General Assembly of Ohio
should be interpreted as raising a contract by the State for
the perpetual maintenance of these canals as public highways.
We have repeatedly held that, where the plaintiff relies for
his recovery upon the impairment of a contract by subsequent
legislation, it is for this court to determine whether such contract existed, as well as the question whether the subsequent
legislation has impaired it. State Bank of Ohio v. .Knoo,
16 How. .369; Bridge Prop'ietors v. Hoboken Co., 1 Wall.
116. This rule also applies to a contract alleged to be raised
by a state statute, although the general principle is undoubted
that the construction put by state courts upon their own statutes will be followed here. Jefferson Branch Bank v. Skelly,
1 Black, 436; .McGahey v. Virginia,135 U. S.662; DougZas v.
Kentucky, 168 U. S.488; .McCullough v. Virginia, 172 U. S.
102.
We cannot say that it is so clear that the statute in question
is not open to the construction claimed that we ought to dismiss the writ as frivolous, within the meaning of the cases

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

which hold that, where the question is not of the validity but
of the existence of an authority, and we are satisfied that
there was and could have been no decision by the state court
against any authority of the United States, the writ of error
will be dismissed. .fillingar v. Harupee, 6 Wall. 25.8; New
Orlean8 v. N. 0. Waterworks Co., 142 U. S. 79, 87; tlamblin
v. lWeaterm Land Co., 147 U. S. 531. If the statute were given
the construction claimed by the plaintiff, it would be difficult
to avoid the conclusion that the abandonment of the canal
under the act of 1894, and its lease to the defendant railroad
company, was a repudiation of the duty of the State to maintain it as.a public highway; though the question would still
remain whether the plaintiff would be in a position to take
advantage of such default.
2. In disposing of this case the Supreme Court of the State
of Ohio held (1) that the defendant railroad corporation had
the power to build a railroad between the termini named, and
to acquire by purchase or condemnation a right of way for its
road, and other property necessary for its operation; (2) that
the act of Congress of 1828, donating land to the State for the
'construction of canals, and the act of the General Assembly
of the State accepting the same, did not constitute a contract
for the perpetual maintenance of such canals; (3) that if such
a contract existed, the plaintiffs in these suits Were not parties
to it; (4) that the Lancaster Lateral Canal Company did not
acquire a fee simple in the lands, but a title for the uses and
purposes of the canal, and the company could not, when the use
ended, sell them to others, but the lands reverted to tire owners
of the freehold; (5) that by leasing the lands for the purposes
of a railroad, the original easement in the lands was not extinguished, but passed to the purchaser, who took it subject to
the duty of making compensation to the owner of the freehold
for the additional burden imposed on the land, and such damages as might result to him from the new use.
We are coneerned only with the second and third of these
conclusions, which turn upon the construction to be given to
the act of Congress of 1828. If, by the acceptance of this
act by the General Assembly of the.State of Ohio, the State

WALSH v. COLUMBUS &c. RAILROAD CO.

477

Opinion of the Court.

became irrevocably bound to keep up the canals for all time,
for the use, not only of the Government, but of every one
who incidentally profited by their preservation, it is impossible
to escape the conclusion that their subsequent abandonment
impaired the obligation of such contract. But we think the
Supreme Court of Ohio was clearly right in its interpretation
of the statute. The principal object of the act was a donation
of lands to aid the State in works of internal improvement,
which were then being extensively qontemplated in the newer
States of the West. Canals, at that time, embodied the most
advanced theories upon the subject of internal transportation.
Congress annexed as a condition to the grant that the canals
built by its aid should "when completed or used, be and forever remain, public highways, for the use of the Government."
Counsel for the defendant insists that, under the terms of the
proviso, the obligation to maintain these canals as public highways existed only so long as they were "wsed" as such, and
this was evidently the opinion of the Supreme Court of Ohio.
Counsel for plaintiff insists, upon the other hand, with much
reason, that the proviso, that "the said canals, when, completed
or itsed, shall be and ever remain public highways," marks the
beginning of the time when the obligation was intended to
operate - that is, if the canals were completed, or without being
completed, were so far completed as to be capable of use, and
were used, the obligation to maintain them in perpetuity
attached. Whatever be the proper interpretation of these
words, and they are by no. means free from ambiguity, the
dominant idea of the proviso was evidently to compel the
State to maintain the canals aspublic highways, and to allow
the Government free use of them "for any property of the
United States, or persons in their service passing along the
same." Whether the canals should be maintained forever as
such, or should give place to more modern methods of transportation, was a matter of much less moment to the United
States than to the State. The General Government was only
interested in securing their use for the public, and the free
transportation of its own servants and property. The object
of the act was to facilitate and encourage public improve-

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

ments, but not to stand in the way of the adoption of more
perfect methods of transportation which might thereafter be.
discovered. Had the question of internal improvements arisen
ten or fifteen years later, when railways began to be constructed, it is quite improbable that the State would have °
embarked upon this system of canals, or that Congress would
have aided it in the enterprise. Waiving the question whether
the State could have abandoned the lands upon which these
canals were built as public highways, we think it entirely clear
that Congress could not have intended to tie the State down
to a particplar method of using them, when subsequent experience has pointed out a much more practicable method, which
has supplanted nearly all the canals then in use. There was
no undertaking to keep up the canals for all time, and we think
the proper construction of the proviso is that the Government
should be entitled to the free use of the canals so long as, and
no longer than, they were maintained as public highways, and
that the act of 1894, leasing these lands to the defendant for
an analogous purpose, does no violence to the contract clause
of the Constitution.
[Were the question one of doubt, we should hesitate long
before refusing to defer to the many opinions of the Supreme
Court of Ohio, through several changes in its personnel, holding it to be within the power of the State to abandon the
canal for other public purposes, and that such abandonment
gave no right of action to private parties incidentally affected
or damnified by it, Eubard v. City of Toledo, 21 Ohio St.
379; Little Miami Elevator ?Jo. v. Cincinnati, 30 Ohio St.
629; Fox v. Cincinnati, 33 Ohio St. 492, affirmed by this
court, 104 U. S. 783; Hatch v. Railroad Co., 18 Ohio St. 92;
Mfalone v. City of Toledo, 28 Ohio St. 643; State v. Board of
-Public WoTrks, 42 Ohio St. 607; Pennsylvania& Ohio Canal
Co. v. Commissioners, 27 Ohio St. 14;

v. Stewart,
-IfoComb

40 Ohio State, 647; State v. Snook, 53 Ohio State, 531; but
the State of Ohio does not stand alone in affirming this principle. People v. err, 27 N. Y. 188; Lexington &c.Rhailroad
v. Appegate,- 8 Dana, 289; WVest v. Bancroft, 32 Vermont,
367; Jlaldeman.v. Pennsylvania Central Railroad, 50 Penn.
St. 425; Chase v. Sutton -Mfg. Co., 4 Cush. 152.

WALSH v. COLUMBUS &c. RAILROAD CO.
Opinion of the Court.

In addition to this, however, the plaintiff stands in no position to take advantage of a default of the State in this particular. He was not a party to the contract between the state
and the Federal Government; his rights were entirely subsidiary to those of the Government; and if the latter chose
to acquiesce in the abandonment of the canals, as it seems to
have done, he has no right to complain. He can only sustain
this bill upon the theory that his rights are equal to those of
the Government, and that he can call upon the State to maintain the canal for his benefit.
The case of. Grinnell v. Railroad Com pany, 103 U. S.739,
is pertinent in this connection. That was an action in ejectment brought by a railroad company to recover certain parcels
of its land grant, upon which the defendants had settled and
asserted rights under the homestead and preemption laws of
the United States. Their defence was that the company had
no title, because it had lost whatever right it had to the lands
by a change in the location of the road, and because locating
the road as it was completed did not bring these lands within
the limits of the land grant act. The court held that the
lands, being within the limits of the first location, the construction of the road on the new line did not annul or defeat,
without further action on the part of the United States, the
title thus vested; that Congress had consented to the change
without any declaration affecting the title already vested in
the company by the first location, and that defendants were
bound thereby. In delivering the opinion of the court, Mr.
Justice Miller observed: "Another point equally fatal to the
plaintiffs in error is, that the assertion of a right by the Unitel
States to the lands in controversy was wholly a matter between
the Government and the railroad company, or its grantors.
The legal title remains where it was placed before the act of
1864. If the Government desires to be reinvested with it,
it must be done by some judicial proceeding, or by some act
of the Government asserting its right. It does not lie in the
mouth of every one who chooses to settle on these lands to
set up a title which the Government itself can only assert by
some direct proceeding. These plaintiffs had no right to stir

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

up a litigation which the parties interested did not desire to
be started. It might be otherwise if the legal title was in the
Government. Then the land would be subject to homestead
or pregmption rights."
A similar case is that of Van Wyck v. Knevals, 106 U. S.
360. In that case the railroad company had filed a map of
definite location, and the land department had withdrawn the
odd-numbered sections appropriate thereto; but in constructing the road the company departed from the line indicated.
The lands in dispute were within ten miles of the road as built
and of the line delineated on the map. They were entered by
Van Wyck, who received a patent for them, and Knevals, who
had acquired his rights from the railroad company, filed a bill
against Van Wyck seeking to charge him as trustee for the
lands, and the court decreed a conveyance accordingly. The
defendant attacked the right of the company to the grant,
alleging that it never completed the construction of the entire
road for which the grant was made; that after filing its map
with the Secretary of the Interior it changed the route of the
road for a part of the distance. The court held, however, that
the company had constructed a portion of the proposed road,
and that portion was accepted as completed in the manner
required by the act of Congress; that if the whole of the proposed road had not been completed any forfeiture consequent
thereon could only be asserted by the United States through
judicial proceedings or through the action of Congress. "A
third party cannot take upon himself to enforce conditions
attached to the grant when the Government does not complain of their breach. The holder of an invalid title does not
strengthen his position by showing how badly the Government
has been treated with respect to the property."
The only contract in this case was between the State of
Ohio and the United States. :Plaintiff was neither party nor
privy to such contract. It was within the power of the.Government to prosecute the State for a breach of it, or to condone such breach, if it saw fit. As it adopted the latter course
and has deemed it proper to acquiesce in the abandonment of
the canals and in the State turning them over to the railroad

,

WRIGHT v. COLUMBUS &c. RAILROAD CO.

481

Syllabus.

company, it does not lie in the mouth of the plaintiff to complain. This disposes of every question called to our attention
in the briefs of counsel.
The plaintiff is amply protected by the decree of the Supreme
Court enjoining the railroad company from enterlg upon his
lands until payment has been made, after proper proceedings,
for the increased burden caused by the use of the lands for
the railroad: If any taking of the lands consequent upon the
remanding of the cause for the purpose stated should suggest
ulterior questions they do not arise there, and would not be
concluded by an affirmance of the decree now before us for
review.
The decree appealed from is therefore
Afirmed.
VOUGHT V.COLUMBUS, HOCKING VILLEY A xD ATHENS RAILROAD

ComPAxY. Error to the Supreme Court of the State of Ohio.
No. 92. Submitted February 26, 1900.
MR. JusTIcE BRowN delivered the opinion of the court.
This was also a petition by a land owner for damages which he
avers will be caused by the abandonment of the canal. The case
took the same course as the case of Tralsh, and the same judgment
was rendered. So far as the constitutional question is concerned,
the cases are precisely alike, and the judgment is accordingly
Affirmed.
This was submitted with No. 90, ante, 469, and by-the same
counsel.

WRIGHT v. COLU.MBUS,

HOOKING VALLEY AND

ATHENS RAILROAD COMPANY.
'ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF OHIO.
No. 91.

Submitted December 18, 1S99. - Decided February 26, 1900.

The Federal question set up in the assignment of errors is precisely the
same as the one set up in No. 90, ante, 469, and No. 92, ante, 481, and being
the only one called to the attention of the court by counsel, those cases
are followed in this.
VOL. CLxxvI-31

