ADIRONDACK RAILWAY v. NEW YORK STATE. "335
Syllabus.

joint judgment for their undivided interests therein, and as
the plaintiffs' declaration jdiscloses no Federal question, the
principles of the cited cases apply, and compel a dismissal of
the suit for want of jurisdiction in the Circuit Court
This conclusion withdraws from our consideration th errors
assigned to the action of the courts below in respect to the,
defendant's several pleas of lisjendens.
The judgment of the Circuit Court of Ap.peaM is reversed;
the judgment of the Circuit Court i8 liewise reversed,
and the cause is remanded"to that court with directions to
dismiss the actionfor want.of jurisdiction.'

ADIRONDACK RAILWAY COMPANY v. NEW
YORK STATE.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
No. 489.

Argued January 15, 16, 1900.-Decided February 26, 1900.

While the legislative power to amend or repeal a statute cannot be availed
of to take away property already acquired, or to deprive a corporation- of
fruits of contracts lawfully made already reduced to possession, the
capacity to acquire laud by condemnation for the construction of a railroad attends the franchise to be a railroad corp6ration' and, when unexecuted, cannot be held, to be in itself a,vested right surviving the
existence of the franchise, or an 'authorized ircumscription of its
scope.
The highest court of the State of New York having held that there is no
property in a naked railroad route in that State which the State is
obliged to pay for when it needs the land co ered by that route for a
great public use, and its officers are by appropilate legislation authorized
to act, this court accepts the views of that coutt, and thinks that the prOceedings on the part of the State which are Complained of in this case,
impaired the obligation of no contract between it and the railway company.
The necessity or expediency of appropriating particular property for public
use is not a matter of judicial cognizance, bilt one for the determination
of the legislative branch of the Government;; and this must Obviously 4e.
so when the State takes for its own purposes.
-

OCTOBER TERM, 1899,"
Statement of the Case.

THis was 'a writ of error to a judgment of the Court of
Appeals of the State of New York affirming a rnal judgment of the Supreme Court of New York perpetually enjoining the Adirondack Railway Company from taking certain
lands by condemnation proceedings. The People of the State
of New York brought the action and obtained judgment at a
special term of the Supreme Court, which was reversed by the
Appellate Division, 39 App. Div. 34, whose order was in turn
reversed by the Court of Appeals, and the original judgment
affirnied. 160 N. Y. 225.
The case is thus stated in the opinion of the Court of Appeals
by Vann, J.:
"In 1882 the Adirondack Railway Company was incorporated for the term of one thousand yeais to construct
and operate a railroad from Saratoga Springs to the river
St. Lawrence, near the city, of Ogdensburg. It was a reorganization of an older corporation known as the Adirondack
Company, which was organized in 1863, under the provisions of chapter 036 of the laws of that year. Prior to the
foreclosure which resulted in the reorganization, the Adirondack Company had constructed a railroad from Saratoga
Springs to 'North Creek, in the county of Warren, and this
railroad, together with the right to extend the same, became
the property of the Adirondack Railway Company, which, in
April, 1892, applied to the railroad commissioners for a cerificate, under chapter 565 of the laws of 1890, to relieve it from
the statutory obligation of extending its lines; on the 9th of
May following, the commissioners issued their certificate accordingly. The Adirondack Railway Company, thenceforth called
the defendant, made no attempt to extend its road until the
early part of 1897, when a survey was made for a proposed
extension fromn North Creek through the counties of Warren,
Hamilton and Essex, to the outlet of Long Lake in Hamilton
County, where it was expected that, by connecting with other
• roads, a route would be secured to the St. Lawrence River.
'Before anything further was done to extend the road, certain
action,
taken by the State, should be briefly alluded to.
"In 1885
the forest preserve was created by statute, embrac-

ADIRONDACK RAILWAY v. NEW YORK STATE.

337

Statement of the Case.

ing 'all the lands now owned, or which may be. hereafter
acquired by the State of New York within' certain counties,
and the area was extended by subsequent legislation. (L. 1885,
oh. 283; L. 1887,. ch. 639; L. 1893, ch. 332.) These acts required said lands to be forever kept as wild forest lands, and
provided that they should not be sold, leased or taken by any
corporation, public or private. A. forest commission with
appropriate powers was created to care for the forest preserve, and appropriations were Made from time to time to
enable it to properly discharge its duties.
"In 18D0 the forest commission was authorizea to ' purchase
lands so located within such counties as include the forest preserve, as shall be available for the purposes of a state park,' and
in 1892 the Adirondack park was established and placed under
the control of said commission. (L. 1890, ch. 37; L. 1892, ch.
70.)
"The revised constitution, which went into effect on the 1st
of January, 1895, provides that 'the lands of the State, now
owned or hereafter acquired, constituting the forest preserve
as now fixed by law, shall be forever kept as wild forest lands.
They shall not be leased, sold or exchanged, or be taken by any
corporation, public or private, nor shall the timber thereon be
sold, removed or destroyed.' (Oonst., art. 7, § 7.)
"In 1895 the legislation relating to the forest preserve and
the Adirondack park was extended by the fisheries, game and
forest law, and it was declared by section 290 that ' such park
shall be forever reserved, maintained, and cared for as ground
open for the free use of all the people for their health and
pleasure and as forest lands necessary to the preservation of
the headwaters of the chief rivers of the State, and a future
timber supply; and shall remain part of the forest preserve.'
(L. 1895, ch. 395, §§ 270, 295.) -During the same year the
forest commission was authorized to purchase 86,000 acres for
the use of the Adirondack park. (L. 1895, ch. 561.) In 1897
an act was passed, the object of which, according to its title,
was ' to provide for the acquisition ,of land in the territory
embraced in the Adirondack park, and making an appropriation therefor.' (L. 1897, ch. 220.) , By this act tke- appointVOL.

cLxxv-22

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Statement of the Case.

ment of a forest preserve board was authorized, and 'it. was
made its duty ' to acquire for the State, by purchase or otherwise, land, structures or waters, or such portion thereof in the
territory embraced in the Adirondack park, qs defined and
limited by the fisheries, game and forest- faw, as it may deem
advisable for the interest of the State.' Section 3 of said
act provides that 'the forest preserve board may enter on and
take possession of any land, structures and waters in the territory embraced in the Adirondack park, the appropriation of
which in its judgment shall be necessary for the purposes
specified in section 290 of the fisheries, game and forest law,
and in section I of article 7 of the constitution.' It is 'provided by the next section: that 'upon the request of the forest
preserve board an accurate description of such lands'so to be
appropriated shall be made by the state engineer and surveyor, or the superintendent of the state land survey, and
certified by him to be correct, and such board or a majority
thereof shall indorse on such description a certificate stating
that the lands described therein have been appropriated by
the State for the purpose of making them a part of the
Adirondack park; and such description and certificate shall
be filed in the office of the Secretary of State. The forest preserve board shall thereupon serve on the owner ,of any real
property so appropriated a notice of the filing and the date of
filing of such description, and containing a general description
of the real property belonging to such owner which has been
so appropriated; and from the time of such service, the entry
upon and appropriation by the State of the real property
described in such notice for the uses and purposes above
specified shall be deemed complete, and thereupon such property shall be deemed and be the property of the State. Such
notice shall be conclusive evidence of an entry and appropriation by the State. § 4. Provision is made by the next section for the payment for lands so taken and for damages
resulting from the appropriation by agreement with the
owner and the delivery of a certificate payable by the state
treasurer upon the warrant of the comptroller. § 5. If the
forest preserve board is unable to agree with the owner upon

ADIRONDACK RAILWAY v. NEW YORK STATE.

339

Statement of the Case.

the value of the property appropriated, the owner, within two
years after the service upon him of the notice of appropriation, may present a claim for the value oet'the land to the
Court of Claims, which has jurisdiction to hear and determinie
the same and to render judgment thereon. The amount of
the final judgment is payable to the treasurer upon the warrant of the comptroller. § 6. No provision is made by the
act for the payment of any lien upon the lands except that
when a judgment for damages is rendered and it appears that
there is a lien or incumbrance upon the property appropriated,
the amount thereof shall be stated in the judgment and the
comptroller may deposit the amount awarded in the proper
bank to be paid and distributed to the persons entitled to
the same as directed by the judgment. § 19. The sum of
$600,000 was appropriated for the purposes specified in the
act, and the comptroller was authorized to borrow $400,000
more upon the request of the forest preserve board to be
expended under its direction.
"On the 6th of August, 1897, after certain negotiations
with the owners of a part of an extensive tract of land known
as the Totten & Crossfield purchase, the forest preserve board
passed a resolution accepting the offer of the owners of about
18,000 acres of township 23, and 32,000 acres of township 15
of that purchase for the sum of $149,000, of which $99,000
was for the land and $50,000 was for certain improvements
at Indian Lake for the use of the State, to be made in accordance with the plans and specifications to be furnished by the
state engineer. Township 15 of the Totten & Crossfield purchase lies, as is admitted in the answer, 'wholly within the
bounds of the forest preserve and also of the Adirondack
park.' Upon the 15th of August, 1897, a representative of
the state engineer with a surveying party began surveying
at Indian Lake for the purpose of constructing a dam at its
mouth in order to stow water for the use of the 'Champlain
Canal and for water power on the Hudson River. Upon the
completion of the survey plans and specifications were prepared and the construction of the dam was commenced.
"September 18, 1897, the defendant caused a map and pro-

340

OCTOBER

ERMlvf, 1899:

Statement of the-Case.

file to be filed in the counties of Hamilton, Warren and Essex
for the extension of its road Across t6wnship 15, which the
forest preserve board bad agreed to purchase as aforesaid, and
which lies partly in each of said three counties. It also gave
notice of such filing to the occupants as required by statute,
but did nothing else. About the 1st of October following,
as the owners were about to convey to the State the lands
covered by the resolution of August 6th, and receive. their
money, they were restrained from so doing by an injunction
issued in an action brought by the Adirondack Railway Company against them. Thereupon they placed the deed in
escrow to be delivered when the injunction was dissolved,
made another deed embracing the same premises, except .the
land described in the railroad survey, delivered it to the forest preserve board, and received the $99,000, according to
agreement. Immediate steps were taken to vacate the injunction, but they were not at first successful, and on the 7th of
October the forest preserve board met, and learring that the
justice who granted the injunction had declined to vacate it,
they took steps to appropriate the land in question for a park
under the power of eminent domain. The state engineer having furnished a description in writing of the six-rod strip,
which the defendant desires for a railroad, and certified -that
the same was correct, the three members of the forest preserve board, acting under. chapter 220 of the Laws of 1897,
annexed thereto a certificate of condemnation and signed the
same as the forest preserve board, in these words: IState of
New York, county of Albany, city of Albany, 88. We, Timothy L. Woodruff, Charles H. Balicock and Campbell W.
Adams, being the forest preserve board, acting under and in
pursuance to aii act of the legislature of the State of New
York, being chapter 220 of the Laws of 1897, entitled "An act
to provide for the acquisition of land in the -territory embraced
in the Adirondack park and making an appropriation therefor,"
do hereby certify that the lands in township 15, Totten &
Crossfield pdrchase, in the counties of Hamilton, Essex apd
Warren, of the State of New York, described in the foregoing
certificate' of the state engineer, have been and hereby are

-

ADIRONDACK RAILWAY v. NEW YORK STATE.

.41

Counsel for Parties.
duly appropriated by the State of New York for the purpose
of making them a part of the Adirondack park.' These
papers, indorsed 'state engineer's certificate and description
and forest.preserve board's certificate of condemnation,' were
filed in the office of the secretary of state on the 7th of October, 1897. On the same day a notice of this action of the
board, with a general description of the property appropriated
and a copy of the papers above mentioned, were served on
William McEchron, the president of the Indian River Company, which then owned the lands involved. -This service
was made, as the special term is presumed to have found, at
ten minutes before noon. On the same day the defendant
began proceedings to condemn gaid strip for the purpose of
extending its railroad, but as the special term is also presumed
to have found, they did not file the i8_pendens until afternoon,
and hence not until after the aforesaid proceeding in behalf of
the State had been completed. iNo notice of condemnation
was served on the defendant.
"On the 2d of March, 1898, the injunction restraining the
conveyance of said lands to the State was reversed on uppeal
by the appellate division, and thereupon the original deed -in
escrow was delivered and recorded. The defendant went on
with its condemnation proceedings -until it was restrained
by a temporary injunction granted in this action, which was
brought to restrain that company and the other defendants
from further continuing the proceedings to condemn.
"The defendant alone answered, and after a trial the
special term rendered judgment for the People, perpetuallyenjoining it from taking the land. Upon appeal the judgment
was reversed by the appellate division and a new trial ordered,
by a divided vote, upon the ground that the company, by the
filing of its map on the 18th of September, had impressed upon
the land a lien that was good as against the State of New York.
The People have appealed to this court, giving the usual stipulation for judgment absolute."
Mofat for plaintiff in error.
21r. R. -Bunarnha
.2'. Edward Winslow Paige for defendant in error.

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

JusTicE FULLER, after making the above stateMR.Cment, delivered the opinion of the court.
The Court of Appeals ruled that on the record it must be
presumed that all the facts warranted by the evidence and
necessary to support the judgment were found by the courts
below; that it was to be assumed that the condemnation
proceedings instituted by the forest preserve board were
fully completed as required by the statute of 18R7 before
proceedings to condemn on its part were commenced by
the railroad company; and that, thereby, if the condemnation act under which the board proceeded was valid, title to
the strip of land in question passed to the State, became a
part of the forest preserve, and the railroad company was
forbidden by the Constitution to take it. The court sustained
the validity of the law, and, without discussing "whether the
State became the equitable owner through contract, possession and performance," held that "it became the legal owner
through the power of eminent domain."
Plaintiff in error contends, in substance: that it possessed by
contract a vested right to construct its road over the six-rod
strip in question, and to take that strip by the exercise of the
power of eminent domain, and that the condemnation features
of the act of 1897, as construed by the Court of Appeals, are
void because impairing the obligation of the contract; that
the condemnation features of the act as construed to confer
authority on the State to acquire, by the proceedings in question, title to the six-rod strip are unconstitutional and void in
that they authorize the taking from plaintiff in error its vested
property right to construct, maintain and operate its railroad
over said strip, "1without any notice whatsoever or opportunity
to be heard, and without the making of any compensation
therefor;" that the proceedings authorized by the act of 1897
do not constitute due process of law.
Section 1 of Article VIII of the constitution of New York
authorized the formation of corporations under general laws,
and by special act (for municipal purposes and) in cases where
in the judgment of the legislature. the objects of the corpora-

ADIRONDACK RAILWAY v. NEW YORK STATE.

343

Opinion of the Court.

tion could not be attained under general laws, bat provided
that "all general laws and special acts passed pursuant to
this section may be altered from time to time or repealed."
The Adirondack company was organized in 1863 under the
general railroad law of New York of April 2, 1850, which
reserved the right of the legislature to "at any time annul
or dissolve any incorporation formed under this act."
The Revised Statutes, in force from 1829 to 1882, provided:
"The charter of every corporation. that shall hereafter be
granted by the legislature, shall be subject to alteration,
suspension and repeal, in the discretion of the legislature."
By an act of March 31, 1865, the Adirondack company was
authorized to "amend its articles of association so as to enable
it, under the generai law, to extend its railioad to some point
on Lake Ontario or river St. Lawrence."
April 25, 1867, the railroad law of April 2, 1850, was
amended so as to ,provide that if -corporations formed under
the act should not within five years after the filing ahd recording of its articles of association commence construction or finish
its road and put it in operation within ton years, its corpolate
existence and powers should cease.
In 1882 the railroad of the Adirondack company extended
from Saratoga Springs to North Creek, and in that year the
Adirondack railway company acquired all.the rights of the
Adirondack company, and, under the reorganization laws of
New York, organized itself with a "life of a thousand years.
The eighty-third section of the railroad law of June 7,
1890, provided as follows: "A railroad corporation, reorganized under the provisions of law, relating to the formation of new or reorganized corporations upon the sale of their
property or franchise, shall not be compelled or required to
extend its road beyond the portion thereof constructed, at .the
time the new or reorganized corporation acquired title to such
railroad property and franchise, provided the board of railroad commissioners of the State shall. certify that in their
opinion the public interests under all the circumstances do
not require such extension. If such board shall so certify'
and shall file in their office such certificate, which certificate

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

shall be irreversible by such board, such corporation shall not
be deemed to have incurred any obligation so to extend its
road, and such certificate shall be a bar to any proceedings
to compel it to make such extension, or to annul its existence
for failure so to do, and shall be final and conclusive in all
courts and proceedings whatever. This section shall not
authorize the abandonment of any portion of a railroad which
has been constructed or operated or apply to Kings County."
On the ninth of May, 1892, on the application of the Adirondack railway company, the board of railroad commissioners
issued its certificate, certifying that in its opinion the public
interests, under all the circumstances, did not require the
extension of the road of the Adirondack railway company
beyond the portion thereof constructed at the time the said
company acquired title to said railroad property and franchises, namely, beyond North Creek, in the county of
Warren.
Counsel argue that the contract with the State was that
plaintiff in error should avail itself of the grant and complete the road within ten years from the filing of its articles
of association, or forfeit its existence and powers; that this
was one of the conditions of the contract; that it was perfectly competent for the State to release the other party from
the fulfilment of such condition without in any way withdrawing its own grant if it chose to do so; and that this was the
sole effect of the application for and the obtaining of the certificate. In other words, that the Adirondack railway company was released from the obligation to extend its road, but
retained the right to do so at any time within nine hundred
and ninety years, and that although the company still possessed and operated the road so far as constructed, and had
asked and received a dispensation from carrying its enterprise
further except as it might choose during the passage of centuries, the State was bound by contract not to withdraw
the bare right, notwithstanding the contract, according to its
express terms, might be changed or abrogated.
Undoubtedly the power to amend or repeal cannot be availed
of to take away property already acquired or to deprive a cor

ADIRONDACK RAILWAY v. NEW YORK STATE.

345

Opinion of the Court.

poration of the fruits already reduced to possession of contracts
lawfully made. But the capacity to acquire land by condemnation for the construction of a railroad attends the franchise to
be a railroad corporation, and when unexecuted cannot be held
to be in itself a vested right surviving the existence of the franchise or an authorized circumscription of its scope. People v:
Cook, 148 U. S. 397; Pearsallv. GreatNorthernRailway Co.,
161 U. S. 616; Bank of Commerce v. Tennesee, 163 U. S. 416,
424.
But it is said that by the filing of the map across township
fifteen and the service of its notices, the railroad company so
far exerted its capacity to extend and construct as to secure
rights in the strip of land which could not be taken at all, or
if so, not without compensation.'
The railroad law provided that companies formed under it
before constructing any part of their road into or through
any county named in their articles of association should make
a map and profile of the route intended to be adopted, file the
same in the office of the clerk of the county in which the road
was to be made, and give written notices-to all actual occupants of the route so designated, and that any party feeling
aggrieved by the location might within fifteen days after receiving notice apply to a justice of the Supreme Court, by petition,
who could affirm or alter the proposed route in such manner
as might be consistent with the just rights of all parties and
the public. The code of civil procedure provided for proceedings to be. taken to acquire title to real property for a public
use by condemnation.
In this case the railroad company filed its map on September 18 and served its rotices September 23, 1897. The forest preserve board on August 6, 1897, had accepted an offer
by the owners of lands, over which the route was projected,
and conveyance thereof was about to be delivered, when on
Septem.ber 30, 1897, an injunction was granted at the suit of
the railway company restraining the owners from conveying.
The fifteen days for objections to the proposed. route prescribed
by the railroad law had not then expired. The State condemned Otober 7, and on the same day, but subsequently,

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

the" company commenced proceedings to condemn under the
.code.
The Court of Appeals held that assuming that the filing of
the map created a lien, or something in the nature of a lien, as
this was by statute and not by contract, it could be done away
with by statute without liability to make compensation, unless
some vested right had accrued under it.
The court further held that no lien nor any right in the
nature of a lien could be created as against the State by the
mere filing of a route map under the railrohd law; that the filing established no right against the owners, because that would
be in violation of the Constitution; and that it established
none against the State because the power of the State was
paramount. But the court was of opinion that, as against all
other railroad companies, and as against all other creatures of
the State empowered to use the right of eminent domain, "it
gave the exclusive right to occupy the particular strip of land
for railroad purposes until the legislature authorized it to be
devoted to some other public use." And the court said : "The
claim that a lien, good as against the creator of the corporation,
was placed upon the land simply by the grant of a franchise
to exist as a corporation in order to build a road, followed by
the filing of a map of the proposed route and notice thereof to
the occupants, but by nothing else, cannot be sustained. There
is no property in a naked railroad route existing on paper only,
that the State is obliged to pay for when it needs the land covered by that route for a great public use, and its officers are
authorized to act by appropriate legislation."
In arriving at these conclusions the Court of Appeals was
construing and applying the laws of the State of New York,
and we perceive no adequate ground for declining to accept
its views in accordance with the general rule on that subject.
In any view, we think that the proceedings on the part of the
State impaired the obligation of no contract between it and
the railroad company.
Counsel concedes that the sovereign power of eminent
domain is inherent in government as such, requiring no constitutional recognition and is as indestructible as the State itself;

ADIRONDACK RAILWAY v. NEW YORK STATE.

347

Opinion of the Court.

and "that all private property, tangible and intangible, is held
subject to the exercise of the right by the- sovereign power,
even that which may already be devoted to a public use."
It is, insisted, however, that the constitutional limitations on
the exercise of the power, though conditions merely and not
part of the power itself, require that the owner shall have
an opportunity to contest the legality of the taking, and that
ultimate payment of.just compensation must be secured.
And the constitutionality of the act of 1897 is attacked as
authorizing the deprivation of property without due process of
law, and the taking thereof without provision for compensation.
The forest preserve was created by an act of May 15, 1885,
and consisted of "all the lands now owned or which may hereafter be acquired by the State of New York within the counties of Essex, Warren, Hamilton and other counties."
Section eight read: "The lands now or hereafter constituting the forest preserve shall be forever kept as wild forest
lands. They shall not be sold, nor shall they be leased or taken
by any person or corporation, public or private." The forest
commission was created by the act, and in 1890 was authorized to "purchase lands so located within such counties as
include the forest preserve, as shall be available for the purposes of a state park," and an appropriation was made for that
purpose. By an act of May 20,1892, the Adirondack park was
established in the countiesof Hamilton, Hterkimer, St. Lawrence,
Franklin, Essex and Warren, was made part of the forest preserve, and. declared to be "forever reserved, maintained and
cared for as ground open for the free use of all the people for
their health or pleasure, and as forest lands necessary to the
preservation of the head waters of the chief rivers of the State,
and a future timber supply," and the forest commission was
given power to contract for the purchase of land subject to
restrictions therein mentioned. Laws on the subject of this
park were passed in 1893, 1894 and 1895, and in the latter year
a new state constitution ca-he into effect, of which section seven
of Article VII was as follows: "The lands of the State now
owned or hereafter acquired, constituting the forest preserve,
as now fixed by law, shall be forever kept as wild forest lands.

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

They shall not be leased, sold or exchanged, or be taken by any
corporation, public or private, nor shall the timber thereon be
sold, removed or destroyed."
Then came the act of 1897, creating the forest pteserve
board, which was empowered to acquire for the State by purchase or otherwise "such lands, structures or waters" within
the limits of Adirondack park as might.be deemed advisable
for the interests of the State, and to enter thereon and take
possession thereof.
By section four it was provided that when the board should
have determined to appropriate certain lands, the state engineer should furnish it with an accurate description thereof certified by him to be correct; that a majority of the board should
indorse on such description a certificate setting forth that the
lands specified had been appropriated by the State for the purpose of making them a part of Adirondack park, which description and certificate should thereupon be filed in the office
of the secretary of state; that the board should then serve on
the owner of the property so appropriated a notice setting
forth the fact of such filing, th6 date of filing and a general
description thereof; and that "from the time of such service
the entry upon and appropriation by the State of the real
property described in such notice for the uses and purposes
above specified shall be deemed complete, and thereupon such
property shall be deemed and be the property of the State.
Such notice shall be. conclusive evidence of an entry and
appropriation by the State."
Under the sixth section the owner, if unable to agree with
the board on the value of the property appropriated or the
amount of damages resulting from such appropriation, might
within two years after the service upon him of the notice of
appropriation, present to the Gourt of Claims a claim for the
value of the land and for damages, and the Court of Claims
shall have jurisdiction to hear and determine such claims and
render judgment thereon, provision being made for the payment of such judgment.
By the nineteenth section it was provided that when a judgment for damages was rendered, "and it appears that there is

ADIRONDACK IRAILWAY v. NEW YORK STATE.

349

Opinion of the Court.

any lien or incumbrance on the property so appropriated, the
amount of such lien shall be stated in the judgment, and the
corn ptroller may deposit the amount awarded to the claimant
in any bank in which moneys belonging to the State may be
deposited, to the account of such judgment to be paid and distributed to the persons entitled to the same as directed by the
judgment.":
The lands taken for the park were thereby dedicated to'a.
public use regarded by the State as-of such vital importance
to the people that-they were expressly put by the constitution
beyond Vhe reach of any other destination. The general rule
is that the necessity or expediency of appropriating particular
property for public use is not a matter of judicial cognizance
but one for the determination of the legislative branch of the
government, and this must obviously be so where the State
takesfor its own purposes. The State possesses the power as
a soveteign and as a sovereign exerts it. How can its citizens
call on the courts to review the grounds on which the State has
acted in the absence of legislation permitting.that to be done?
It is true that the State may delegate the power, and where
it has dpne so to a rhilroad corporation and by its exercise
lanids have been subjected to a public use, they cannot be
applied to another public use without specific authority,
expfessed or imperatively implied, to that effect. But the
sovereign power of the*State cannot be alienated, and where
exercised is exclusive.
In this case the use for the park was in itself inconsistent with
the use for railroad purposes, and the legislation and the constitution alike forbade this company to acquire for its use any
portion of that which the State had taken for its own exclusive
and designated purposes.
Compensation must indeed be made, and inquiry as to its
amount in some appropriate way, before some properly constituted tribunal, must be provided for, Backus v. Union. Depot
Company, 169 U. S. 557, and it is the rule in New.York that
where this is done, and a certain, definite and adequate source
of payment is provided, compensation need not actually be made
in advance of a taking by the State or one of its municipal

OCTOBER TERM, 1899..
Syllabus.

subdivisions.

i

the 2fatter of the Mfayor, ce., 99 N. Y. 569;

Sweet v. Rechel, 159 U. S. 380, 400.

This act fulfils these requirements in that the state treasury
is the source of payment, and an appropriate mode is designated
for the ascertainment of compensation as to owners and those
holding liens and incumbrances. In providing for notice to
owners only, the act seems to contemplate that it will appear
in 'the progress of the proceedings to ascertain compensation
whether there are outstanding claims, and that such claimants
may thereupon come forward and be heard.
We need not discuss the sufficiency of the provision in this
respect, since we agree with the Court of Appeals, as has already
been indicated, that the railroad company occupies no position
entitling it to raise the question. The steps it had taken had
not culminated in the acquisiti6n of any property or vested
right; and no contract between it and the State was impaired,
nor was due process of law denied to it within the meaning of
the Constitution of the United States under the circumstances
Judgment afirmed.
disclosed on this record.

THORMANN v. FRAME.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE COUNTY OF WAUKEESA
STATE OF WISCONSIN.
No. 841.

Submitted January 22, 1900. -Decided

February 26, 1900.

The bare appointment of an executor or administrator of a deceased person
by the courts of one State cannot be held, on principle or authority, to
foreclose inquiry as to the domicil of the deceased in the courts of
another State.
The general rule is that administration may be granted in any State or
Territory where unadministered personal property of a deceased person
is found, or real property subject to the claim of any creditor of the
deceased.
The constitutional provision that full faith and credit sball be given in
each State to the judicial proceedings in other States, does nbt preclude
inquiry into the jurisdiction of the court, in which the judgment is
rendered, over the subject-matter or the parties affected by It, or into
the facts necessary to give such jurisdiction.

