TOLEDO &c. R'D CO. v. CONTINENTAL TRUST CO.

219

Opinion of the Court.

TOLEDO, ST. LOUIS & KANSAS CITY RAILROAD
COMPANY .CONTINENTAL TRUST COMPANY.
ROSE v. CONTINENTAL TRUST COMPANY.
PETITIONS FOR CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF"APPEALS
FOR THE SIXTH CIRCUIT.
Nos.500, 501. Submitted January 22, 1900. - Decided January 29, 1900.

Clerks of" the Circuit Court of Appeals, having prepared the records on
which causes are heard therein for the printer, indexed, and supervised
the printing of the same, and distributed the printed copies thereof,
and been paid therefor, may certify one of such copies for use on applications to this court for certiorari.
The reproduction of transcripts, in manuscript or in print, under such circumstances, is not required.

THE statement of the case is in the opinion of the court.
X r. James D. Springer, Xr.F. Spiegelberg and .M'., John
Ford for the Toledo, St. Louis &c. Railroad Company.
MT. John S. ,filler for Rose.
.Mr.
E. 0. Henderson, Mr. Hlenry Crawford and Ar. Willard Parker Butler for the Continental .Trust Company.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE FULLER

delivered the opinion of the

court.
These petitions for certiorari were accompanied by a motion for an order dispensing with the authentication and certification by the clerk of the Circuit Court of Appeals for the
Sixth Judicial Circuit of the transcript of the record of the
Circuit Court of the United States for the Northern District
of Ohio, on which the appeals mentioned in the petitions were
heard and submitted to and decided by said Circuit Court of
Appeals. The clerk of the Circuit Court of Appeals has certified the transcript of the record and proceedings in that court,
"except the transcripts from the Circuit Court, and except

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

also the printed briefs of counsel filed in my office in said
causes." It appears that the transcript of -record from the
Circuit Court was duly certified by the clerk of the Circuit
Court, was filed in the Circuit Court of Appeals, and thereafter was printed under the supervision, direction and control
of the clerk of the Circuit Court of Appeals under and pursuant to the rules of that court, and that after the decision
of the cases there, which had been heard and decided on one
record, petitioners requested the clerk to certify, for the purpose of these applications, the transcript so printed under his
supervision without requiring petitioners to pay the entire cost
of'a reproduction of the same in manuscript, but that the clerk
refused .to make any deduction by reason of the premises, and
insisted that he had no power or authority so to do.
Under the third subdivision of rule 37 of this court, where
application is made for certiorari under section six of the judiciary act of March 3, 1891, it is provided that "a certified copy

of the entire record of the case in the Circuit Court of Appeals
shall be furnished to this court by the applicant, as part of the
application."
The table of fees and costs in the Circuit Court of Appeals,
established by this court in pursuance of the act of Congress
of February 19, 1897, 169 U. S. 740, provides that the clerks
of the Circuit Courts of Appeals may charge, among other
items, for:
Affixing a certificate and a seal to any paper ..........
$1 00
Preparing the record.for the printer, indexing the same,
supervising the printing and distributing the copies,
for each printed page of the record and index ......
25
Making a manuscript copy of the record, when required
by the rules, for each one hundred words (but nothing
in addition, for supervising the printing) ............
20
The record in these cases having been prepared for the
printer, indexed, the printing supervised, and copies thereof
distributed by the clerk of the Circuit Court of Appeals, and
the clerk having been paid therefor, we are of opinion that

ROBERTS, Treasurer, v. UNITED STATES.
Counsel for Roberts.

our rule would have been fully complied with by the certificate of that clerk to one of the printed copies which he had
so prepared, indexed, supervised and distributed, and which
he, therefore, knew was an accurate transcript of the record
from the Circuit Court; and, as it is shown, and is not denied,
that the printed copies furnished us are in fact correct copies
of the Circuit Court record, we have treated them as if that
record had been duly certified to us by the clerk of the Circuit
Court of Appeals.
The applications for certiorari are
Denied.

ROBERTS, Treasurer, v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIORARI TO TE

COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.

No. 56. Argued December 15,18,1899. -Decded February 5,1900.
A judgment of the Court of Claims, under the act of June 16, 1880, c. 243,
in favor of the claimant, against the District of Columbia, upoh a certificate of. the board of audit of the District, in an action commenced in
1880, is not affected by the provision in the act of July 5, 1884, c. 227,
forbidding the payment of such certificates, not presented for payment
within one year from the date of the Passage of the latter act.
The evident purpose of the act of August 13, 1894, c. 279, was to give the
balance of interest upon the certificates between 3.65 and 6 per cent to
the original holders of the certificates, or their assignees, the interest
upon which had been paid only at the former rate.
The right of- the relator as assignee having been admitted, it is no longer
open to inquiry.
If a public ofilcer of the United States refuses to perform a mere ministerial
duty, imposed upon him by law, mandamus will lie to compel him to do
his duty.
In this case, as the duty of the Treasurer of the United States tor pay the
money in question was ministerial in its nature, and should have been
performed by him on demand; mandamus was the proper remedy for
failure to do so.

THE

case is stated in the opinion.

Mr..-7?oert A. Howard for Roberts.
was on his brief.

Mr. Solicitor General

