OCTOBER TERI 1899.
Syllabus.

Similar views have been expressed by the highest courts of
several States in like actions based upon the same Kansas constitutional and statutory provisions.. Ferguson v. Sherman, 116
California, 169; Bell v. .Farwell, 176 Illinois, 489; Uaneock
-National Bank v. -Ellis, 172 Mass. 39; Western ifational
Bank v. Lawrence, 117 Michigan, 669; Guerney v. .. oore,
131 Missouri, 650. See also Paine v. Stewart, 33 Connecticut,
516; Cushing v. Perot,175 Penn. St. 66; Rhodes v. United
States NSational Bank, (U. S. Ct. Ap. 7th Cir.) 24 U. S. App.
607; Bank of .Hvora America v. Rindge, (U. S. Cir. Ct. S.
Dist. Cal.) 57 Fed. Rep. 279; M1c Vickar v. Jones, (Cir. Ct.
Dist. N. H.) 70 Fed. Rep. 754; .Aechanics' Savings Bank v.
.FidelityInsurance Company, (Cir. Ct. E. Dist. Penn.) 87 Fed.
Rep. 113; Dexter v. .Edmands, (Cir. Ct. Mass.) 89 Fed. Rep.
467; Brown v. Trail,(Cir. Ct. Dist. Md.) 89 Fed. Rep. 64:1.
We see no error in the judgment of the Circuit Court of
Appeals, and it is, therefore,
A~frmed.
MR. JusTioE PEcmA&m dissented.

THE BENITO ESTENGER.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES FOR

THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF FLORIDA.
No. 192. Argued January 11, 12,1900.-Decided March 5, 1900.

The general rule is that in time of war the citizens or subjects of the belligerents are enemies to each other without regard to individual sentiments or dispositions, and that political status determines the question
of enemy ownership.
By the law of prize, property engaged in any illegal intercourse with the
enemy is deemed enemy property, whether belonging to* an ally or a
citizen, as the illegal traffic stamps it with the hostile character and
attaches to it all the penal consequences.
Provisions are not, in general, deemed contraband; but they may become
so if destined for the army or navy of the enemy, or his ports of naval
or military equipment.
In dealing with a vessel asserted to be an enemy vessel, the fact of trade
with the enemy in supplies necessary for the enemy's forces is of decisive importance.

THE BENITO ESTENGER.
Statement of the Case.
Individual acts of friendship cannot change political status'where there is
no open adherence to the opposite cause and former allegiance remains
apparently unchanged.
A consul has no authority by reason of his official station to grant exemption from capture to an enemy vessel; and this vessel was not entitled
to protection by reason of any engagement with the United States.
In cases of peculiar hardship, or calling for liberal treatment, it is not f6r
the courts, but for another department of the Government, to extend
such amelioration as the particular instance may demand.
Transfers of vessels flairantehello cannot be sustained if subjected to any
condition by which the vendor retains an interest in the vessel or its
profits, a control over it, or a right to its restoration at the close of the
war.
The burden of proof in respect of the validity of such transfers is on the
claimant, and the court holds as to the transfer in this case that the
requirements of the law of prize were not satisfied by the proofs.

THE Benito Estenger was captured by the U. S. S. Hornet
on June 27, 1898, off Cape Cruz on the south side of the island
of Cuba, and was brought into the port of Key West and duly
libelled on July 2. The depositions in pr paraorioof Badamero Perez, Edwin Cole and Enrique de Messa were taken, and
thereafter and on July 27 a claim was interposed by Perez as
master of the steamer on behalf of Arthur Elliott Beattie, a
British subject, as owner, supported by test affidavits of himself and de Messa. The cause was preliminarily heard on the
libel, the depositions in preparatorioand the test affidavits,
and sixty days given for further proofs. Accordingly the
depositions of the claimant and sundry others were taken on
behalf of the claimant, and the testimony of the consul of the
United States at Kingston on behalf of the captor. The cause
coming on for final hearing, the court entered a decree December 7, 1898, cbndemning the vessel as lawful prize as enemy
property, and ordering her to be sold in accordance with law.
Claimant thereupon appealed, and assigned errors to the
effect in substance that the court erred in failing to hold that
the Benito Estenger was a British merchant ship, duly documented and entitled to the protection of the British flag, and
lawfully owned and registered by a subject domiciled in Great
Britain; and also in holding that the Benito Estenger was lawful prize of war, inasmuch as she was engaged on a voyage in

OCTOBER TERI, 1899,
Counsel for Parties.

behalf of the local Cuban junta in Kingston, allies of the
United 8tates, and when captured was in the service of the
United States, and employed in friendly offices to the forces of
.the United States. The vessel prior to June 9, 1898, was the
property of Enrique de Messa, of the firm of Gallego, de Messa
and Company, subjects of Spain and residents of Cuba. On
that day a bill of sale was made by de Messa to the claimant,
Beattie, a British subject, and, on compliance with the requirements of the British law governing registration, wis registered
asa British vessel in the port of Kingston, Jamaica. The vessel had been engaged in trading with the island of Cuba, and
more particularly between Kingston and Montego, Jamaica,
and Manzanillo, Cuba. She left Kingston on the 23d of June,
and proceeded with a cargo of flour, rice, cornmeal and coffee
to Manzanillo, where the cargo was discharged. She cleared
from Manzanillo at 2 o'clock A.M., June 27, for Montego, and
then for KingstQn, and was captured at half-past five of that
day off Cape Cruz. The principal question was as to the ownership of the vessel and the legality of the alleged transfer,
but other collateral questions were raised in respect of the
alleged Cuban sympathies of de Messa; service on behalf of
the Cuban insurgents in the United States; and the relation
of the United States consul to the transactions which preceded
the seizure. It was argued that the vessels of Cuban insurgents and other adherents could not be deemed property of the
enemies of the United States; that this capture could not be
sustained on the ground that the vessel was such property;
that the conduct of de Messa in his sale to Beattie was lawful,
justifiable, and the only means of protecting the vessel as neutral property from Spanish seizure; and finally, that this court
could and should do justice by ordering restitution, under all
the circumstances of the case.
Xr. HarringtonPidnam,for claimant.
_Y'. Assistant Attorney General Hoyt for the United States.
Mr. Joseph K. _YoCammon, and _Yr. James Ht. Hayden, counsel for captors, were on his brief.

THE BENITO ESTENGER.
Opinion of the Court.

.3f. George A. Zing and -Mr. William B. King filed a
brief on behalf of captors.
M i. CHIEF JUSTICE FULLE.R, after stating the case, delivered
the opinion of the court.

If the alleged transfer was colorable merely, and AIessa was
the owner of the vessel at the time of capture, did the District
Court err in condemning the Benitq Estenger as lawful prize
as enemy property
"Enemy property" is a technical phrase peculiar to prize
courts, and depends upon principles of public policy as distinguished from the common law. The general rule is that
in war the citizens or subjects of the belligerents are enemies
to each other without regard to individual sentiments or dispositions, and that political status determines the question
of enemy ownership. And by the law of prize, property
engaged in any illegal intercourse with the enemy is deemed
enemy property, whether belonging to an ally or a citizen,
as the illegal traffic, stamps it with the hostile character and
attaches to it all the penal consequences. .Pp'izecases, 2 Black,
635, 674; -The-Sally,8 Cranch, 382, 384; Jeker v. Montgomery,
18 How. 110; The Peterhof, 5 Wall. 28; The _Flying Scud,
6 Wall. 263.
Messa was a Spanish subject, residing at Santiago, and for
years engaged in business there. His vessel had a Spanish
crew and Spanish officers, and he testified that he was on
board of her as supercargo. She had the Spanish flag in her
lockers, though she was flying the British flag at the moment,
under a transfer, which, as presently to be seen, was colorable
and invalid. There was evidence tending to show that Messa
sympathized with the Cuban insurgents, but no proof that he
was himself a Cuban rebel or that he had renouhced his allegiance to Spain. The vessel carried to Manzanillo on this
voyage a cargo' of provisions, consisting principally of eleven
hundred barrels of flour.
Manzanillo was a city of several thousand inhabitants and
the first important place on the south: Cuban coast between

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

Santiago and Cienfuegos, lying inside the bay formed by the
promontory which Cape Cruz terminates, and about sixty
miles northeast of the cape. Cape Cruz is about due north
from Montego Bay on the northwestern shore of Jamaica,
and about seventy-five miles distant, while Kingston is on
the southeastern coast of Jamaica. The record lacks evidence
of the condition of affairs there at that time, but official
reports leave no doubt that it was defended by several vessels
of war and by shore batteries, and was occupied by_ some
thousands of Spanish soldiers. On the 6th of April, 1898,
the Secretary of the Navy had instructed Admiral Sampson,
among other things, that the Department desired, "That in
case of war, you will maintain a strict blockade of Cuba,
particularly the ports of Havana, Matanzas, and, if possible,
Santiago de Cuba, Manzanillo and Cienfuegos." M\inzanillo
was the terminus of a cable which connected with Santa Cruz,
Trinidad, Cienfuegos and Havana, and was subsequently cut
by the forces of the United States, in order to check the
inland traffic with Manzanillo and to prevent the calling of
reinforcements to resist the capture of that place. And it
appeared that Admiral Sampson had been for some weeks
endeavoring to stop blockade running on the south coast of
Cuba, and that a large vessel with a heavy battery was stationed at Cape Cruz. Manzanillo was not declared blockaded,
however, until the proclamation of June 27, 1898; but the
consul of the United States at Kingston had warned Messa
and Beattie that a blockade in fact existed. The claimant
testified that the vessel was chartered by Flouriache, a Cuban
merchant, and that the cargo was consigned to Bauriedel and
Company, at Manzanillo The deposition of neither of these
was taken. According to the explicit testimony of the consul, he was informed by both the claimant and his brother
that the flour was transferred by ]Bauriedel and Company,
through a communicating way from their warehouse to the
Spanish government warehouse, immediately upon its delivery; and no evidence to contradict this was introduced.
The instructions of the Navy Department to "?Blockading
-Vessels and Cruisers," in the late war, included among articles

THE BENITO ESTENGER.
Opinion of the Court.

conditionally contraband, "Provisions, when destined for an
enemy's ship or ships, or for a place that is besieged."
In The Commercen, 1 Wheat. 382, 388, Mr. Justice Story
said: "By the modern law of nations provisions are not, in general, deemed contraband; but they may become so, although
the property of a neutral, on account of the particular situation
of the war, or on account of their destination.

.

.

.

If des-

tined for the ordinary .use of life in the enemy's country, they
are not, in general, contraband; but it is otherwise if destined
for military use. Hence, if destined for the army or navy of
the enemy, or for his ports of naval or military equipment,
they are deemed contraband."
In The Jonge .Margaretha,1 0. Rob. 189, 193, Sir William
Scott discussed this question, and, after referring to many
instances, concluded: "And I take the modern established
rule to be this, that generally they are not contraband, but may
become so under circumstances arising out of the .parLicular
situation of the war, or the condition of the parties engaged
in it."
But while alluding to this subject by way of illustration we
do not feel called on to consider under what particular circumstances, generally speaking, provisions may be held contraband
of war. It is enough that in dealing with a vessel adjudicated
to have been an enemy vessel, the fact of trade with the enemy,
especially in supplies necessary for the enemy's forces, is of well
nigh decisive importance.
In reply it is suggested that this cargo was intended for
the Cubaninsurgents, and a quotation is made from a letter
of the consul to the effect that he had been "told privately by
the president of the local junta, who has performed valuable services for me, that the proceeds of this cargo are to be forwarded
to the Cuban government and troops through the Cuban agent
at Manzanillo." The suggestion derives no support from the
record, and the facts remain that the provisions were delivered
to the Spanish government, and that the trade to this Spanish
stronghold constituted, under the laws of war, illicit intercourse
with the enemy.
This brings us to consider the contention that Messa had

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

rendered important services to the United States; that he was
the friend and not the enemy of this Government, and that
there was an agreement between him and the United States
consul which operated to protect the vessel from capture.
But Messa's status was that of an enemy, as already stated,
and this must be held to be so notwithstanding individual acts
of friendship, certainly since there was no open adherence
to the Cuban cause, and allegiance could have been shifted
with the accidents of war. The legal conclusion was not affected by the fact that Messa had, in cultivating friendly relations with the consul, given the latter an old Government plan
of the province of Santiago and an especially prepared chart of
the harbor. Thus displaying his amicable inclinations, he endeavored to obtain from the consul a letter of protection for the
voyage he was about to undertake, but this the consul declined
to furnish, and informed him at the same time that'Manzanillo
was blockaded, and that the contemplated venture would be
at his own risk.
levertheless, the consul agreed to write the Admiral, and
did write him June 23, that Messa offered to give certain
information that might be valuable, and that he propbsed to
be off Cape Cruz on June 30, when he could be picked up
there and taken to the Admiral if desired; but the consul
said: "You quite understand that in dealing with those people, one is always more or less liable to imposition. I therefore make no recommendation of Messa to you." There was
nothing to show that the voyage was undertaken on the
strength of this letter or that it in any way contributed to the
capture, nor that th6 Admiral intended to avail himself of
the suggestion in regard to Messa.
The claimant asserted and the consul denied that protection
to the voyage was extended by the latter. But we do not go
at length into this matter because we think that no engageWnent with the United States nor any particular service to the
,,nitpd
States was made out in that connection, and so far as
appears the vessel was captured in the ordinary course of
cruising duty at a time and under circumstances when her
liability was not to be denied. Moreover, a United States

THE BENITO ESTENGER.
Opinion of the Court.

zonsul has no authority by virtue of his official station to
grant any license or -permit the exemption of a vessel of an
enemy from capture and confiscation. This was so held by
Judge Mc Caleb in .Rogers v. T]he Anado, Newberry, 400, in
which he quotes the language of Sir William Scott in The
Rqove, 1 Dodson, 226, 229: "To exempt the property of enemies from the effect of hostilities, is a very high act of sovereign authority; if at any time delegated to persons in a
subordinate situation, it must be exercised either by those who
have a special commission granted to them for the particular
business, and who, in legal language, are termed mandatories,
or by persons in whom such a power is vested in virtue of any
official situation to which it may be considered incidental. It
is quite clear that no consul in any country, particularly in an
enemy's country, is vested with any such power in virtue of
his station. 'ifi rei nonprceonitur;' and therefore his acts
relating to it are not binding."
In The JosepA, 8 Cranch, 451, the vessel was condemned
for trading with the enemy, and it was held that she was not
excused by the necessity of obtaining funds to pay the expenses of the ship, nor by the opinion of an American minister'
expressed to the master, that by undertaking the voyage he
would violate no law of the United States. The court said
that these considerations, "if founded in truth, present a case
of peculiar hardship, yet they afford no legal excuse which it
is competent to this court to admit as the basis of its decision."
This is equally true of the case before us, for eveu if the
circumstances may have justified liberal treatment, that cannot be permitted to influence our decision. It belongs to
another departmefbt of the Government to extend such amelioration as appears to be demanded in particular instances.
Neither the case of Les Cing F.[Trres, 4 Lebau's Nouveau
Code des Prises, 63, nor that of The 3fIaria, 6 C.Rob. 201,
cited by counsel, is in point. In the former, the Committee
of Public Safety in the year three of the French calendar of
the Revolution decreed the condemnation of Les Cinq FrCres
as an enemy's vessel, and of her cargo although belonging to
Frenchmen, but further decreed restitution of the cargo or its

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

value, as matter of grace, in consideration of services rendered
by the claimants in furnishing provisions to the Republic,
adding that this should not be drawn into a precedent. The
latter simply involved the interpretation of an indulgence
specifically granted by the British government.
Thus far we have proceeded on the assumption that the
transfer of the Benito Estenger was merely colorable, and
this, if so, furnished in itself ground for condemnation. A
brief examination of the evidence, in the light of well-settled
principles, will show that the assumption is correct.
Messa's story of the transfer was that the steamer had been
owned by Gallego, Messa and Company, and then by himself;
that he was compelled to sell in order to get money to live
on; that he made the sale for $40,000, for which, or a large
amount of which, credit was given on an indebtedness of
Messa to Beattie and Company, and that he was employed by
Beattie to go on the vessel as his representative and business
manager.
It appeared that Beattie applied to the customs and shipping office in Jamaica for a British register, lodged with him
the bill of sale, and made a declaration of ownership before
him as registrar of shipping, which documents wete filed on
June 9 and 14 respectively, and were in conformity with the
requirements of British law. The depositions of the ship broker and his employ~s put the price at nine thousand pounds,
and showed their belief that the sale was bonafde, founded
on what passed between Messa and Beattie. They did not
know what arrangements were made for the payment of the
price or how or in what shape the purchase money was paid.
The accountant stated that after the sale Beattie went on
board and took possession of the vessel, and informed the officers in charge that he had become the owner, gave orders
regarding her, and informed witness that he had given Messa
the position as supercargo.
There was considerable confusion on*the point as to who
was master of the vessel after the transfer. Perez testified
that he was, and as master he interposed the claim on behalf
of Beattie. He also swore that Mr. Beattie "informed him

THE BENITO ESTENGIR.
Opinion of the Court.

that he could remain as master, but it would be necessary for
him to put an English subject on board as first officer or second captain, in conf6rmity with the British law." Cole, a
British subject, asserted that he was master, and Beattie
stated that he appointed him such with Perez as mate and
pilot, while Messa said that Perez was master and that he,
Messa, was supercargo. Perez had been the captain of the
ship and remained on her, and conceding that Cole was placed
on board in the capacity of captain, the inference is not unreasonable that this was for appearances only.'
Beattie testified that he was a member of the firm of Beattie and Company, composed of himself and his brothers, all
British subjects, and interested in* lands, sugar estates, mines
and forests in the district of Manzanillo; that he bad resided
there for some years, returning to his parents' home in England for several months at a time; that he concluded the purchase of the Benito Estenger from Messa on June 9, 1898;
that she left Jamaica on her last voyage on June 23, bound
for Manzanillo, and chartered by Flouriache, .a Cuban merchant, carrying a cargo of food stuffs sent for the purpose of
trade ; that he bought the vessel for nine thousand pounds;
but he declined to state of what the payment or payments of
the phrchase money consisted, although saying that the sale
was bonafrd.
The consul testified that claimant, in conversation, while
insisting that the transfer was absolute, admitted that it was
effected for the purpose of protecting the vessel.
In short, the statements as to price were conflicting; the
reason assigned for the sale was to get money to live on, and
yet apparently no money passed, and Messa said that he received credit for a large part of the consideration on indebtedness to claimant's firm; claimant himself refused to describe
the payment or payments; the Spanish master and crew remained in charge; Messa went on ,the voyage as supercargo;
the vessel continued in trade, which, in this instance at least,
appeared to be plainly trade with the enemy; and, finally, it
is said by claimant's counsel in his printed brief: "It will not
be contended upon this appeal that all the interest of Mr.
VOL. CLXXV-37

OOTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

Messa in the Benito Estenger ceased on June 9, 1898. Tho
transfer was obviously made to protect the steamer as neutral
property from Spanish seizure. That Mr. Messa, however,
still retained a beneficial interest after this sale and transfer
of flags, and continued to act for the vessel as supercargo, has
not been disputed."
The attempt to break the force of this admission by the
contention that the change of flag was justifiable as made to
avoid capture by the Spanish is no more than a reiteration of
the argument that Messa was a Cuban rebel, and his vessel a
Cuban vessel, which, as has been seen, we have been unable
to concur in. If the transfer were invalid, she belonged to a
Spanish subject, she was engaged in an illegal venture, and
her owner cannot plead his fear of.Spanish aggression.
Transfers of vessels fXagrante bello were originally held
invalid, but the rule has been modified, and is thus given by
Mr. Hall, who, after stating that in France "their sale is forbidden, and they are declared to be prize in all cases in which
they have been transferred to neutrals after the buyers could
have knowledge of the outbreak of the war;" says: "In
England and the United States, on the contrary, the right to
purchase vessels is in principle admitted, they being in themselves legitimate objects of trade as fully as any other kind of
merchandise, but the opportunities of fraud being greab, the
circumstances attending a sale are severely scrutinized, and
the transfer is not held to be good if it is.subjected to any
condition or even tacit understanding by which the vendor
keeps an interest in the vessel or its profits, a control over it,
a power of revocation, or a right to its restoratioh at the conclusion of the war." International Law, (4th ed.) 525. And
to the same effect is Mr. Justice Story in his Notes on the
Principles and Practice of Prize Courts, (Pratt's ed.) 63; 2
Wheat. App. 30: "In respect to the transfers of enemies'
ships during the war, it is certain that purchases of them by
neutrals are not, in general, illegal; but such purchases are liable to great suspicion; and if good proof be not given of their
validity by a bill of sale and payment of a reasonable consideration, it will materially impair the validity of a neutral

THE BENITO ESTENGER.
Opinion of the Court.

claim;

.

.

.

and if after such transfer the ship be em-

ployed habitually in the enemy's trade, or under the management of a hostile proprietor, the sale will be deemed merely
Anything tending to conc'lorable and collusive. . .
tinue the interest of the enemy in the ship vitiates a contract
of this description altogether."
The Sechs Gesiwisteru, 4 C. Rob. 100, is cited, in which
Sir William- Scott said: "This is the case of a ship, asserted
to have been purchased of the enemy; a liberty which this
country has not denied to neutral merchants, though by the
regulation of France, it is entirely forbidden. The rule which
this country has been content to apply is, that property so
transferred, must be bonajide and absolutely transferred ; that
there must be a sale divesting the enemy of all further interest in it; and that anything tending to continue his interest,
vitiates a contract of this description altogether."
In The Jemmy, 4 0. Rob. 31, the same eminent jurist
observed: "This case has been admitted to farther proof,
owing entirely to the suppression of a circumstance, which if
the court had known, it would not have permitted farther
proof to have been introduced; namely, that the ship has been
left in the trade, and under the management of her former
owner. Wherever that fact appears, the court -will hold it to
be conclusive, because, from the evidenia rei, the strongest
presumption necessarily arises, that it is merely a covered and
pretended transfer. The presumption is so strong, that scarcely
any proof can avail against it. It is a' rule which the court
finds itself under the absolute necessity of maintaining. If
the enemy could be permitted to make a transfer of the ship,
and yet retain the management of it, as a neutral vessel, it
would be impossible for the court to protect itself against
frauds."
And in The Omnibus, 6 0. Rob. 71, he said: "The court
has often had occasion to observe, that where a ship, asserted
to have been transferred, is continued under the former agency
and in the former habits of trade, not all the swearing in the
world will convince it that it is a genuine transaction."
The rule was stated by Judge Cadwalader of the Eastern

OCTOBER TERM4, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

District of Pennsylvania thus: "The rule of decision in some
countries has been that, as to a vessel, no change of ownership during hostilities can be regarded in a prize court. In
the United States, as in England, the strictness of this rule is
not observed. But no such change of property is recognized
where the disposition and control of a vessel continue in the
former agent of her former hostile proprietors; more especially when, as in this case, he is a person whose relations of
residence are hostile." T/he Island Belle, 13 Fed. Cases, 168.
So in The Baltica, Spinks Prize Cases, 264, several vessels
had been sold by a father, an enemy, to his son, a neutral,
immediately before the war, and only paid for in part, the
remainder to be paid out of the future earnings thereof, and
the Baltica, which was one of them, was condemned on the
ground of a continuance of the enemy's interest.
In The Soglasie, Spinks Prize Cases, 104, Dr. Lushington
held the onus probandi to be upon the claimant, and made
these observations: "With regard to documents of a formal
nature, though when well authenticated they are to be duly
appreciated, it does not follow that they are always of the
greatest weight, because we know, without attributing blame
to the authorities under which they issue, they are instruments
often procured with extraordinary facility. What the court
especially desires is, that testimony which bears less the appearance of formality,- evidence natural to the transaction,
but which often carries with it a proof of its own genuineness;
the court looks for that correspondence and other evidence
which naturally attends the transaction, accompanies it, or follows it, and which, when it bears upon the face of it the aspect
of sincerity, will always receive its due weight."
In Tle Ernst .ferclc, Spinks Prize Cases, 98, the sale was
to neutrals of Mecklenburg shortly before the breaking out
of war, and it was ruled that the onus of giving satisfactory
proof of the sale. was on the claimant, and without it the court
could not restore even though it was not called on to pro-nounce affirmatively that the transfer was fictitious and fraudulent. In that case the vessel was condemned partly because
of absence of proof of payment, Dr. Lushington saying: "We

MAXIWELL v. DOW.
Syllabus.

all know that one of the most important matters to be estab.
lished by a claimant is undoubted proof of payment."
To the point that the burden of proof was on the claimant
see also The Jenny, 5 Wall. 183; The Amiable 1sabella, 6
Wheat. 1; The Lilla, 2 Cliff. 169; Story's Prize Courts, 26.
We think that .the requirements of the law of prize were
not satisfied by the proofs in regard to this transfer, and on
all the evidence are of opinion that the court below was right
Decree aJfirmed.
in the conclusion at which it arrived.
MR. JUSTICE SHIRAS, MR. JusTICE WHITE

PEoxHAm

and

MR. JUSTICE

dissented.

MAXWELL

. DOW.

pI-58

f178 72[

ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF UTAH.'
lo. 84. Argued December 4,1899.-Decided February 26,1900.

The decision in Hurtado v. California, 110 U. S. 516, that the words "due
process of law" in the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution of
the United States do not necessarily require an Indictment by a grand
jury in a prosecution by a State for murder, has been often affirmed,
and is now reaffirmed and applied to this case.
The privileges and immunities of citizens of the United States do not necessarily include all the rights protected by the first eight amendments to
the Federal Constitution against the powers of the Federal Government.
The trial of a person accused as a criminal by a jury of only eight persons
instead of twelve, and his subsequent imprisonment after conviction
do not abridge his privileges and immunities under the Constitution as
a citizen of the United States and do not deprive him of his liberty
without due process of law.
Whether a trial in criminal cases not capital shall be by a jury composed of
eight instead of twelve jurors, and whether, in case'of an infamous crime,
a 'person shall be only liable to be tried after presentment or indictment
by a grand jury, are proper to be determined by the citizens of each State
for themselves, and do not come within th Fourteenth Amendment to
the Constitution so long as all persons within the jurisdiction of the State
are made liable to be proceeded against by the same kind of piocedure,
and to have the same kind of trial, and the equal protection of :ie laws
is secured to them.

