OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Syllabus.

of war a neutral vessel approaching such port on a peaceful
errand.
. (3) If an immediate exigency -and none such is shown to
have existed in the present case -justified the Admiral of the
United States in prohibiting the entrance of neutral vessels,
sound principles of international law required that such vessels
should be warned on approaching the. port, and they could not
be seized as lawful prize, unless they disregarded the warning
and attempted again to enter.
This is no time, in the history of international law, for the
courts of the United States, in laying down rules to affect the
rights .Qf neutrals engaged in lawful commerce, to extend and
apply harsh decisions made a hundred years ago, in the stress
of the bitter wars then prevailing when the rights of the com'paratively feeble neutral states were wholly disregarded. Still
less should our courts, as it seems to me was done in this case
by the District Court, adopt strained and unnatural constructions of facts and circumstances, in order to subject vessels of
nations With whom we are at peace to seizure and condemnation.
I am authorized to say that MR. JUSTicE GRAY, N. JUSTICE
and MR. JUsTIcE PE xHAM concur in this dissent.

WHITE

ROLLER v. HOLLY.
ERRO

TO THE COURT OF CIVIL APPEALS FOR THE FOURTH
SUPREME JUDICIAL DISTRICT OF TEXAS.
No. 104. Submitted January 18, 1900.-Deided February 26, 1900.

A. state statute authorizing service of process by publication or otherwise
upon absent and non-resident defendants, has no application to suits in
personam; but is a sufficient authority for the institution of suits in rem,
where, under recognized principles of law, such suits may be instituted
against non-resident defendants.
Where a dtatute specifies certain classes of cases which may be brought
against non-residents, such specification operates as a restriction ana

ROLLER. v. HOLLY.
Statement of the Case.
limitation upon the power of the court; but where the power is a general
one it is, as respects suits in rem, subject to no limitation.
Where service of process was made upon a defendant residing in Virginia,
requiring him to appear and answer a suit in Texas within five days, it
is held that such notice was not a reasonable one, was not" due process of
law" within the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution of the United
States, and that a judgment obtained upon such notice was not binding
upon the defendant.

Tins was an action instituted July 14, 1894, by the plaintiff

Roller in the District Court of Limestone County, Texas, to
recover a judgment against Stephen Holly and William Holly
upon five promissory notes for $228 each, dated January 1,
1890, payable to plaintiff, for the purchase price of a tract of
one hundred and fourteen acres of land in that county, sold
by him to them, and also to foreclose a vendor's lien upon the
land to the amount of such notes.
To this action Joseph Peoples, H. W. Williams and W. T.
Jackson were also made parties defendant under ah. allegation
that they were asserting an interest in the land; and a foreclosure of the vendor's lien was sought as against them. The
defendants were all duly cited; the Hollys failed to answer,
but the defendants Peoples, Williams and Jackson filed an
amended answer at the January term, 1895, of the court, in
which they alleged that the plaintiff Roller bought the land
in question from John W. and Cora E. Jordan in January, 1887,
and gave in pait payment therefor his note fo; $216.17, due
November 1, 1890, in which note as well as in the deed made
to him a vendor's lien was retained; that before the maturity
of this note the firm of Mc0lintic & Proctor had become its
owners, and on December 24, 1890, began in the District Couft
of Limestone County a suit against the plaintiff for a foreclosure
of the vendor's lien upon the land; that, "after due service
being had," McClintic & Proctor on January 9, 1891, recovered
a judgment against the plaintiff for $276.65, with interest and
costs of suit, and an order for the foreclosure of the vendor's
lien; that an order of sale was issued, and on A[arch 3, 1891,
the land was sold by the sheriff of Limestone County for $300,
and bought by defendant Williams, who paid the amount to the
sheriff, though the defendant Jackson was interested with him

OCTOBER TERM,, 1899.
Statement of the Case.

in the purchase, and on May 4, 1891, the two sold the land to
their codefendant Peoples.
Prayer: That in the event plaintiff recovered the land as
-against the defendants Williams, Jackson and Peoples, they
recover of plaintiff the $300 paid for the land, aid that the
same be decreed a lien thereon.
To this amended answer plaintiff filed a first supplemental
petitiop, consisting of demurrer, exceptions and answer, containing First. A general denial.
.Second. That at the time of the institution of the suit of
McClintic & Proctor against him, plaintiff was a citizen of the
State of Virginia, and resided in the county of Rockingham,
in said State.
That in January, 1890, he' sold and conveyed the land in controversy to Stephen and William Holly by written instrument
.signed by him, and took the notes sued on as purchase price
of the land.
That he put his said vendees in possession of the land, and
that they were in possession of the land*at the time of .the
institution of the M6Clintie & Proctor suit and had been in
possession since the sale to them, and that neither they nor the
Jordan were made parties to that suit.
That the McClintic & Proctor judgment was void as to
plaintiff, because the Districb Court of Limestone County,
Texas, never acquired jurisdiction over him nor the property
in question.
.That the judgment was not obtained nor was the sale of the
land made and obtained by due process of law, but was in contravention of the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution
of the UnAted States.
That service of process -onhim in the McClintic & Proctor
suit was obtained without the jurisdictional limits of the State
of Texas, to wit, in the county of Rockingham and State of
Virginia.
That no writ of attachment or other writ was levied on the
land.
Third. That the proceedings in the McClintic & Proctor

ROLLER

. HOLLY.

Opinion of the Court.

suit prior to the judgment and the allegations in the petition
were ineffectual to confer jurisdiction on the District Court of
Limestone County over either the person of plaintiff or the
land.
Fourth. That the time given him in which to answer the
suit of -McClintic & Proctor before the actual rendition of
their judgment was not reasonable notice, nor such due and
orderly proceedings, under the facts and circumstances as disclosed by the record thereon, as the law requires.
Fifth. That the lien attempted to be enforced in the McClintic & Proctor suit was an equitable lien, created by operation
of law, and there has been no legislation in Texas authorizing
such suit.
Upon an agreed statement of facts, substantially as above,
judgment was rendered by default in favor of plaintiff against
the Hollys for $1722.66, but the court refused to enforce the
vendor's lien against the land, and gave judgment against
plaintiff and in favor of Williams, -ackson and Peoples for
costs. Plaintiff appealed to the Court of Civil Appeals, which
affirmed the decree of the District Court. 13 Tex. Civ. App.
636. Plaintiff thereupon applied to the Supreme Court of
the State for a writ of error, which that court refused; where-.
upon he sued a writ of error from this court.
.Mr. W. S. Laidley and .M'n. John E. Roller for plaintiff
in error.
_31r. W. T. Jaekson, MAIr. H. W. Williams and Xfr. JT. Pee-

ples for defendants in error.
Mu. Ju'sTic BRowN, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.

Briefly stated, the case is this: 'Roller, the plaintiff, who
was a resident of Virginia, bought this land in January, 1887,
gave a note in part payme,.t for $216.17, which passed into
the hands of McClintic & Proctor, who brought suit thereon
for a personal judgment against the plaintiff, and for the forevoL. cLxxvi-26

OCTOBER TERM, '1899.
Opinion of the Court.

closure of a vendor's lien upon the land; served plaintiff with
notice of the suit in Virginia, December 30, 1890, to appear in
Texas January 5, 1891, and took judgment against him by
default January 9, 1891, for $276.65, apd 'for o: foreclosure of
the lien. 'Upon a sale in pursuance of this foreclo§ure, March
3, 1891, the land was struck off to Williams and Jackson,,aud
by them sold to Peoples.
Meantime, however, and on January 1, 1890, a year before
the. MeClintic & Proctor suit was begun; plaintiff sold
the land to the Hollys, who went into possession, and took
from them five notes of $228 each, and also reserved a ven.
dor's lien, which he sought to foreclos6 in this suit. Williams,
Jackson and Peoples, who purchased the land kunder the
sheriff's sale in the -fcClintic ,& Proctor suit, were made parties defendant, and now aver thai the plaintiff's title passed to
them, which plaintiff denies upon the ground that no process
was served upon him within the State of Texas, or within a
reasonable time before he was required to appear and answer.
The question in dispute, then, is whether a notice served
upon the plaintiff in Rockingham Countk, Virginia, Deceimber 30, 1890, to appear in Limestone County, Texas, on January 5, 1891, to answer the foreclosure suit is due process of law
within the meaning of the Fourteenth Amendment? The
Hollys, who bought this land and went into possession a year
before the. McClintic & Proctor suit was begun, were not
made parties to that suit, probably because the deed frojm the
plaintiff to them\was not on record in Limestone County at
the time of the institution of the suit, and their rights are not
involved hen,. It is conceded that the Mc~lintic & Proctor
judgment is invalid as a-personal judgment against the plaintiff under the case of Pennoyer v. frfe, 95 U. S. 71i4, 723, and
other cases in Texas of the same import.
1. The position of the plaintiff that, as there was no statute
in Texas authorizing a suit against a non-resident to enforce
an equitable lien for purchase money, and as there had been
no seizure n renm of the laids, nor any notice to Roller's
vendees, the Hollys, who w6re in possession, the jurisdiction
of the Texas courts could not attach, and the whole proceeding was void, is unsound.

ROLLER v. HOLLY.
Opinion of the Court.

In the case of Bart v. ,Sansom, 110 U. S.151, relied upon
in support of this contention, an action of ejectment was
brought against several defendants, who set up in defence a
judgment against.the plaintiff as one having some pretended
claim or title to the lands, and other defendants holding
recorded deeds thereof, which were averred to be fraudulent
and void. Plaintiffs in that suit averred that these pretended
deeds and claims cast a cloud upon their title; and that one
of the defendants had ejected them from the lands and withheld possession from the plaintiffs. Due service was made on
the other defendants, and a citation to Hart, who was a citizen of another State, was published as directed by the local
statutes. All the defendants were defaulted, and upon a writ
of inquiry the jury found that Hart claimed the land, but had
no title by record or otherwise, and returned a verdict for the
plaintiffs upon which judgment was entered for a recovery of
the land, the cancellation of.the deeds and the removal of the
cloud upon the title. It was held that this judgment was no
bar to an action by Hart in the Circuit Court of the United
States, to recover the land against Sansom, who held under
a lease from the plaintiffs in the former suit. We held that
none of that judgment was applicable to Hart, since that part
which was for recovery of possession could not apply to him,
as he was nof in possession; and that part which was for the
cancellation of the deeds set up in the petition, was a decree
in permonam merely, and could only be supported against a
non-resident of the State by actual service upon him within
the jurisdiction of the State, and that constructive service by
publication was not sufficient. Neither of the plaintiffs, how.ever, was in possession of the land or claimed a lien thereon.
In Arndt v. Gr'iggs, 134 U. S.316, it was held directly that
a State'may provide by statute that the title to real estate
within its limits shall be settled and determined by a suit in
which a non-resident defendant is brought into court by publication. It appeared in that case that a suit had been began
by a party alleging that he was the owner and in ossession
'of the land in controversy, by virtue of certain tax deeds,
against defendants claiming to have some title or interest in

-

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

the lands by patent from the United States, which title, as
was alleged, was divested by the tax deeds, and was unjust,
inequitable and a cloud upon plaintiff's title, and that the suit
was brought for the purpose of quieting such title. The
defendants were brought in by publication, and a decree
entered in favor of plaintiff quieting his title. The question
was whether that decree was a bar to an action in ejectment
'between the grantees of the respective parties to the proceedings to quiet title. In other words, as put by the court:
"Has a State the power to provide by statute that the title
to real estate within its limits shall be settled and determined
by a suit in which the defendant, being a non-resident, is
-brought into court only by publication?" The question was
answered in the affirmative. In delivering the opinion of the
court Mr. Justice Brewer obseried: "The question is not
what a court of equity, by virtue of its general powers and in
the absence of a statute, might do, but it is, what jurisdiction
has a State over titles to real estate within its limits, and what
jurisdiction may it give by statute to its own courts, to determine the validity and extent of the claims of non-residents to
such real estate? If a State has no power to bring a nonresident into its courts for any purpose by publication, it is
impotent to perfect the titles of real estate within its limits
held by its own citizens; and a cloud cast upon such title by
a claim of a non-resident will remain for all time a cloud,
unless such non-resident shall voluntarily come into its courts
for the purpose of having it adjudicated. But no such imperfections attend the sovereignty of the State. It has control
over property within its limits; and the condition of ownership of real estate therein, whether the owner be stranger or
citizen, is subjection to its rules concerning the holding, the
transfer, liability to obligations, private or public, and the
modes of establishing titles thereto. It cannot bring the person of a non-resident within its limits-its process goes not
out beyond its borders-but it may determine the extent of
his title to real estate within its limits; and for the purpose
of such determination may provide any reasonable method
of imparting notice.

].Mortgage liens, mechanics' liens,

ROLLER v. HOLLY.
Opinion of the Court.

material-men's liens and other liens are foreclosed against nonresident defendants upon service by publication only. Lands
of non-resident defendants are attached and sold to pay their
debts; and indeed, almost any kind of action may be instituted and maintained against non-residents to the extent of
any interest in property they may have in Kansas, and- the
jurisdiction to hear and determine in this kind of cases may
be obtained wholly and entirely by publication."
This case is readily distinguishable from that of Hart v.
San8om in the important fact that the plaintiffs in the judgment set up as a defence in that case were out of possession
*while the defendants were in possession, and the action was
really in ejectment with a somewhat superfluous prayer for
the cancellation of all the deeds under which the defendants
claimed title. In Arndt v. Griggs the plaintiffs were in possession, under tax deeds it is true, but having a pm'a facie
valid title which they sought to vindicate against the former
owners.
The substance of these cases is that if the plaintiff be in
possession, or have a lien upon land within a certain State,
he may institute proceedings against non-residents to foreclose such lien or to remove a cloud from his title to the
land, and may call them in by personal service outside of
the jurisdiction of the court, or by publication, if this method
be sanctioned by the local law.
In suits for the foreclosure of a mortgage or other lien upon
such property, no preliminary seizure is necessary to give the
court jurisdiction. The cases in which it has been held that a
seizure or its equivalent, an attachment or execution upon the
property, is necessary to give jurisdiction are those where a
general creditor seeks to establish and foreclose a lien thereby
acquired. Of this class Cooper v. Reynolds, 10 Wall. 308, is
the most prominent example. In that case a plaintiff in an
action for false imprisonment had attached the ptoperty
of Reynolds in certain lands, which were sold upon. execution to Cooper, who was put in possession by the sheriff.
Reynolds, the original owner, brought ejectment against
him, and it was held by this court that Reynolds' title to

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

the land had been divested by the attachment proceedings,
upon the ground that, in this class of cases, the levy of the
attachment gave the court jurisdiction. But the object of
such attachment is merely to give a lien upon the property
which" the courts may enforce; and if a lien already exists,
whether by mortgage, statute or contract, the court may
proceed to enforce the same precisely as though the property had been seized upon attachment or execution.
It is true there is no statute of Texas specially authorizing
a suit against a non-resident to enforce an equitable lien for
purchase money, but article 1230 of the Code of Texas,
hereinafter cited, contains a general. provision for the institution of suits against absent and non-resident defendants,
and lays down a method of procedure applicable to all such
cases. Obviously this article has no application to suits in
per8onam, as was held by the Supreme Court of Texas in
York v. State, 73 Texas, 651; Zimmarle v. Houston &
Texas Central Railway, 76 Texas, 686; -Maddox v. Craig,
80 Texas, 600; and by this court in Pennoyer v. Neff, 95
U. S. 714, 723. The article must then be restricted to actions
in em; but to what class of actions, since none is mentioned
specially in the article ? We are bound to give it some effect.
We cannot treat it as wholly nugatory, and as it is impossible
to say that it contemplates a procedure in one class of cases
and not in another, we think the only reasonable construction
is to hold that it applies to all cases where, under recognized
principles of law, suits may be instituted against non-resident
defendants. In the case of llollingworth v. Barbour,4 Pet.
466, relied upon by the plaintiff, a statute of Kentucky authorized suits in chancery against non-residents "where any person
or persons, their heirs or assigns, claim land as locator, or by
bond or instrument in writing;" and as the plaintiff in the
case did not claim as locator, it was held that the court acted
without authority, and that the decree was void for want of
jurisdiction. Where the statute specifies certain classes of
cases which may be brought against non-residents, such specification doubtless operates as a restriction and limitation upon
the power of the court; but where, as in article 1230 of the

ROLLER v. HOLLY.
Opinion of the Court.

Texas Code, the power is a general one, we know of no
principle upon which we can say that it applies to.' one
class of cases and not to another. Unless we are to hold
it to be wholly inoperative, it would seem that suits to foreclose mortgages or other liens were obviously within its
contemplation. In any event, this was the construction given
to it by the Court of Civil Appeals, and apparently by the
Supreme Court of the State, and is obligatory upon this
court as a construction of a state statute. Battle v. Carter,
44 Texas, 485; Oswald v. .azufmann, 28 Fed. Rep. 36, a

Texas case; _Martin v. 1Pond, 30 Fed. Rep. 15.
2. We are therefore remitted to the principal question in
dispute between these parties, namely, the sufficiency of the
notice given to the plaintiff of the AMoClintic & Proctor suit.

-

In this connection our attention is called to certain articles of
the Texas Code, the first one of which, Art. 1228, Sayles' Texas
Civil Statutes, provides generally for the service of process by
giving five days' notice, -exclusive of the day of service and of
the return day. In addition to this there are the following
sections:
Art. 1230. "Where the defendant is absent from the
State, or is a non-resident of the State, the clerk shall, upon
the application of any party to the suit, his agent or attorney,
address a notice to the defendant requiring him to appear and
answer the plaintiff's petition at the time and place of holding
of the court, naming such time and place. Its style shall be
'The State of Texas,' and it. shall give the date of the filing of
the petitioh, the file'number of the suit, the names of all the
parties, and the nature of the plaintiff's demand, and shall state
that a copy of the plaintiff's petition accompanies the notice.
It shall be dated and signed and attested by the clerk, with the
seal of the court impressed thereon ; and the date of its issuance
shall be noted thereon; a certified copy of the plaintiffs petition shall accompany the notice."
Art. 1234. "Where a defendant has been served with such
notice he shall be required to appear and answer in the same
manner, and under the same penalties as if he had been personally served with a citation within this State."

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

Art. 1280.

"

.

The fifth day of each term of the dis-

trict court and the third day of each term of the county court
are termed appearance days."
Art. 1281. "It shall be the duty of the court on appearance
day of each term, ox as soon thereafter as may be practicable,
to call in their order all cases on the docket whi6h are returnable in such term."
Art. 1340. "Judgments for the foreclosure of mortgages and
other liens shall be, that the plaintiff recover his debt, damages and costs, with a foreclosure of the plaintiff's lien on the
property subject thereto, and (except in judgments against
executors, administrators and guardians) that an order of sale
shall issue to the sheriff or any constable of the county where
such property may be, directing him to seize and sell the same
as under execution, in satisfaction of the judgment; and if the
property cannot be found, or if the proceeds of such sale be
insufficient to satisfy the judgment, then to make the money,
or any balance thereof remaining unpaid, out of any other
property of the defendant, as in case of ordinary executions."
From these requirements it appears that the time for service
of process in the courts of Texas was five days, exclusive of
the day of service and return, and that there is no distinction
in this particular between defendants living in the town where
the court is sitting and defendants living in other States, or
even in a foreign country. In short, for aught that appears
here, parties may be called from the uttermost parts of the
,earth to come to Texas and defend suits against them within
five days from the day the notice is served upon them. In the
case under consideration it is admitted that the defendant was
served with notice on December 30, 1890, at Harrisonburg,
Rockingham County, Virginia, to appear on January 5, 1891,
at Groesbeck, Limestone County, Texas; that it would have
required four days of constant travelling to reach Groesbeck,
giving the plaintiff but one day, and that a Sunday, to make
preparations :to comply with the exigencies of the notice.
This estimate, too, makes no allowance for accidental delays
in transit. It is true that, by articles 1280 and 1281, the case
could not have been called for trial or default until the fifth day

ROLLER v. HOLLY.
Opinion of the Court.

of the term, January 9, and that Roller's default was not actually taken and judgment entered until that day. -But, as a
citizen of Virginia, he was not bound to know the practice of
the Texas courts in that particular, and was at liberty, even i[
he were not compelled, to construe the notice as it read upon
its face. Very probably, too, the court which rendered the
judgment would have set the same aside, and permitted him to
come in and defend; but that would be a matter of discretion
- a contingency he was not bound to contemplate. The right
of a citizen to due process of law must rest upon a basis more
substantial than favor or discretion.
That a man is entitled to some notice before he can be
deprived of his liberty or property, is an axiom of the law to
which no citation of authority would give additional weight;
but upon the question of the length of such notice there is a
singular dearth of judicial decision. It is manifest that the
requirement of notice would be of no value whatever, unless
such notice were reasonable and adequate for the purpose,
Davidon v. New Orleans, 96 U. S. 97; IEagar v. RecZamation
District, 111 U. S. 701-712. What shall be deemed a reasonable notice admits of considerable doubt. In the case of a witness subpcena the command of the writ is that the party served
shall lay aside all his business and excuses, and make his way
to the court with the utmost dispatch, or at least present himself upon the return day of the writ. An ordinary summons,
however, to answer the suit of a private individual contemplates that the party served may have other business of equal
or greater importance engaging his attention, or may require
time for the retainer of counsel and the preparation of his
defence.
In 2 Chitty's General Practice, 175, it is said in reference to
summary proceedings before justices of the peace: "The time
appointed must always allow sufficient opportunity between the
service of the,summons and the time of appearance, to enable
the party to prepare his defence and for his journey; and the
justice should in this respect take care to avoid any supposition
of improper hurry, or he may incur the censure of the Court
of King's Bench, if not be subject to a criminal information.

OCTOBER TERMSI, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

The precise time will generally depend on distance, and the
cireumstances of each particular case. With analogy to
other branches of the law, a man should not be required, omis-

-other

99 omnlbu8.aliis negotus, instantly to answer a charge of. a

supposed offence necessarily less than an indictable misdemeanor, on the same or even the next day, and should be
allowed not.qnly ample time to obtain legal advice and assistance, butalso to collect his evidence; and even the convenience
of witnesses should be considered; and therefore, in general,
several days should intervene between the time of summons
and hearing. In the superior courts, in general, at least eight
days' notice of inquiry and of trial are essential for the preparation of the defence." In vol. 2, page 144, it is said that the
ancient practice was that a person residing at a considerable
distance from a metropolis should be allowed more time for
performing the act than a person within, or near, the metropolis, but that there is now no distinction between an arrest on
process in London or Yorkshire, and in each case the defendant must appear or put in bail within eight days after the date
of service or arrest. This, considering *the small area of the
*kingdom, and the rapid means of transportation, seems just
and reasonable.
While, as before stated$ there is but little in the way of
judicial authority upon the question, in the statutes of the several States regulating proceedings against absent and nonresident defendants, there is a consensus of opinion, which is
entitled to great weight in passing upon the question of the
reasonableness of such notice.
In the act of Congress providing for the enforcement of liens
upon property as against non-residents, Rev. Stat. §.738, the
court is required to make an order fixing a day certain, which
shall be served on the absent defendant wherever found, or, if
personal service be impracticable, such order shall be published
once a week for six consecutive weeks, with a proviso that, if
theie be no p.rsonl service, he shall have one year after final
judgment to enter his appearance, and set aside the judgment..
The same proviso allowing the court to fix the time of appearance is found in the statutes of Massachusetts, New Hampshire,
Pennsylvania, Alabama, Maryland and Virginia.

ROLLER v. HOLLY.
Opinion of the Court.

By the sixth rule of this court, a party moving to dismiss
must give a notice of at least three weeks, ard where counsel
to be notified reside west of the Rocky Mountains, a notice of
at least thirty days.
By the Code of Civil Procedure of New York, sec. 440, the
jifdge is required to make an order for publication once a week
for six successive weeks, and in addition thereto the plaintiff,.
on or before the day of the first publication, is -bound to mail
a copy of the- summons, complaint and order forL appearance
to the non-resident defendant. By sec. 2525, citation 'from
Surrogate's Courts must be served on non-residents at least
thirty days before .the return day.
By the General Statutes of Vermont, (1894) § 1641, 1643,
non-resident defendants (served out of the. State) are entitled
to at least twenty days' notice before the time when they are
required to appear.
By the practice in Michigan, the court orders the absent or
non-resident defendant to appear in not less than three months,
if he be a resident of the State, absent or concealed, and if a
resident of some other of the, United States or of the British
provinces, in not less than four months; and if a resident of
any foreign State, in not less than five months from the date
of making the order; and if the order b.e not published for six
successive weeks, defendant shall be personally served at least
twenty days before the time prescribed for his appearance.
2 Howell's Statutes, §§ 6670, 6671 and 6672.
By the Revised Statutes of Illinois, (1899) chapter 22, § 14,
there must'be either publication or a personal service upon the
non-resident defendant, "not less than thirty days previous to
the commencement of the term at which such defendant is
required to appear.'
By te General Statutes of New Jersey, (1895) Vol. 1, page
405, the chancellor may order the non-resident defendant to
appear not less than one nor more than three months from the
date of the order; "of which order such notice as the chancellor
shall by rule direct shall, within ten days thereafter, be served
personally on such defendant," or be published for four weeks.
This gives the defendant at least twenty days' personal notice.

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

By the General Statutes of Arkansas, (1894) § 5677, 5678, a
non-resident defendant is entitled to a copy of the 6oniplaint
and the summons warning him to appear and answer "within
sixty days after the same shall have been served on him."
By the Code of Georgia, (1895) § 4979, the party obtaining
an order for the appearance of a non-resident defendant shall
file in the office of the clerk, at least thirty days before the
term next after the order for publication, a copy of the newspaper in which said notice is published, which the clerk is
required to at once mail to the party named in the order; and,
by sec. 4980, the judge is required to determine whether the
service has been properly perfected.
By the Revised Statutes of Florida, (1892) § 1413, the clerk
must publish the order for the appearance of a non-resident
defendant once a week for four consecutive weeks, and also,
within twenty days after the making of the order, mail a copy.
to the defendant, if his residence be shown by the bill or
affidavit.
By the Code of Montana, (1895) § 638, publication must be
made for four successive weeks, and, where the residence of
the defendant is known, the clerk must forthwith deposit a
copy of the summons and complaint in the post office, directed
to the person to be served at his place of residence. A similar
practice also obtains in California.
By the General Statutes of Mississippi, (1892) sec. 3423, publication may be dispensed with, if the summons be served upon
the absent party at least ten days before the return day. This
is the shortest length of notice to be found in any of the
statutes.
By the Code of Oregon, (1892) see. 57, in case of publication,
which must be not less than once a week for six weeks, the
court or judge shall also direct a copy of the summons and
complaint to be forthwith deposited in the post office, addressed
to the defendant, if his place of residence be known; and "in
case of personal service out of the State, the summons shall
specify the time prescribed in the order for publication."
It may be said in general, with reference to these sfatutes,
that in cases of publication notice is required to be given at

MOSS v. DOWMAIN.
Syllabus.

least once a week for from four to eight weeks, and in case of
personal service out of the State, no notice for less than twenty
days between the service and return day is contemplated in
any of the States except Mississippi, where a personal notice
of ten days seems to be sufficient. While, of course, theie statutes are not obligatory here, they are entitled to consideration
as expressive of the general sentiment of legislative bodies
upon the question of reasonableness of notice.
Without undertaking to determine what is a reasonable
notice to non-residents, we are of opinion, under the circumstances of this case, and considering the distance between the
place of service and the place of return, that five days was not
a reasonable notice, or due process of law; that the judgment
obtained upon such notice was not binding upon the defendant
Roller, and constitutes no bar to the prosecution of this action.
The judgment of the Court of Civil Appeals, aflrming the
judgment of the .DistrictCourt of Limestone County, must

there.fo'e be reversed, with instruction8 to remand the case
to that courtfor furtheryroceeding8 not inconsistent with
this ovinion.
THE CHIEF

JusTiCE and MR. JUSTicE BREwER dissented.

MOSS v. DOWMAN.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE EIGHTH
CIRCUIT.

1o.141. Argued and submitted January 31, February 1, 1900.-Decided February 26, 1900.

Decisions of the land dopartment in contest cases on questions of fact are con,clusive.
Dowinan went upon the public land in controversy, then unoccupied, on the
19th September, 1890, built a cabin and continued to live there. November
18, 1890, he made a formal homestead entry in the local land office, and
after five years of continued occupancy and proof of the same he received
a patent. On May 7, 1890, one Doran made a homestead entry of the same
land without occupying it, which he subsequently relinquished, Moss pay-

