OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Statement of the Case.

WARBURTON 2. WHITE.
IERROR TO THE SUPREME

COURT OF THE STATE

No.101. Argued January 16, 1900. -Decided

OF WASHINGTON.

February 26, 1000.

The statute of Washington Territory of November 14, 1879, providing that
one half of community property of husband and wife should be subject
-tothe testamentary disposition of the husband or wife, subject respectively to the community debts, and, in default of such testamentary disposition that the share of the deceased husband or wife should descend
to his or her Issue, and if there was no such issue-should pass to the survivor, does no violation to the Constitution of the United States, when
applied to such community property held under the statute of that Territory of November 14, 1873, which provided that property acquired
after marriage by either husband or wife, except such as might be acquired by gift, bequest, devise or descent, should be common property,
of which the husband should have the entire management and control,
with the like absolute power of disposition as of his own separate
estate.

THIS case involves the title to a lot of land in the city of
Tacoma, in the State of Washington. The pertinent facts
presenting the controversy are as follows:
Prior to 1877,Eli G. Bacon and Sophia D. Bacon were husband and wife and citizens and residents of the then Territory
of Washington. In the year named, Bacon, the husband, with
community funds, that is, with money acquired after. his marriage with his wife, Sophia D. Bacon, purchased the real estate
in question and took title thereto in his own name, the property being used as the residence of the husband and wife.
At the time of the purchase the laws of the Territory of
Washington provided, with reference to community or 1.
common" property, as it was termed in the earlier statute, as follows: By an act approved November 14, 1873, (Laws of 1873,
Wash. Ter. p. 450,) the property acquired after'marriage by
either husband or wife, except such as might be acquired by
'gift, bequest, devise or descent, was declared to be "common
property," and it was further provided that the husband should
have the entire management and control of such property,

WARBURTONT v. WHITE.
Statement of the Case.

"with the like absolute power of disposition as of his own
separate estate." There was also in force an act approved
November 12, 1875, (Laws of 1875, Wash. Ter. p. 53,) providing that upon the death of the husband or wife the whole of
the "community " property, subject to the community debts,
should go to the survivor.
Subsequently to the purchase of the real estate in question,
by an act approved November 14, 1879, (Laws of 1879, Wash.
Ter. p. 77,) it was, however, provided that one half of the
community property should be subject to the testamentary
disposition of the husband or wife, subject respectively to the
community, debts, and in default of such testamentary disposition that the share of the deceased husband or wife should
descend to his or her issue, and if there was no such issue should
pass to the survivor. On July 28, 1880, Mrs. Bacon died intestate, leaving surviving her the following children, her only
heirs at law, viz.: 'atilda B. White and Amelia McDonald,
two daughters by a first marriage, and Ellen T. Nelson, a
daughter by the marriage with Mr. Bacon.
In August, 1892, twelve yeafs. after the death of his wife,
Bacon became indebted to Stanton Warburton, plaintiff in
error, and the latter recovered a judgment upon such indebtedness in April, 1895. Upon an execution issued on the judgment, a judicial sale was made on March 2, 1896, to Warburton
of the interest of Mr. Bacon in the property in controversy;
and -after confirmation by the court and the expiration of
the time allowed by law for redemption -a deed was duly
made to Warburton by the sheriff of Pierce County, Washington, on May 4,.1897. Twenty days thereafter, Warburton
institated an action in the Superior Court of said ]Pierce
County, against the aforementioned children and heirs of Mrs.
Bacon, to quiet his title to said lot against alleged adverse
claims of said heirs. A joint answer to the complaint was
filed on behalf of all the defendants, setting up the facts as to
the acquisition of the property by Bacon, the death of Mrs.
Bacon intestate while the title to the community property was
still in Bacon, and asserting that the defendants had an undivided interest therein as heirs of their mother.

OCTOBER TERM. 1899.
Statement of the Case.

Thereafter, on October 12, 1897, Mrs. Nelson conveyed to
the plaintiff whatever interest she had in the property. An
amended answer was filed on behalf of the two remaining
defendants, reiterating the main allegations of the former
answer; setting up that the defendant, Amelia McDonald,
for a valuable consideration, had sold and conveyed to her
codefendant and sister, Mrs. White, before the commencement of the action, all her interest in said real estate; and
it was prayed that the latter might be adjudged the absolute
and unqualified owner in fee simple of an undivided one third
of the property. A reply wns filed to this amended answer,
admitting that the lot in question was purchased with community funds, "and that the said property became then and
there the community property" of Mr. and Mrs. Bacon, and
that Bacon still held title thereto on "the decease of his wife.
The cause was heard by the court without a jury upon an
agreed statement which embodied the facts above recited,
and the additional fact that intermediate the purchase by
plaintiff at the sheriff's sale and the purchase by him. from
Mrs. Nelson, Bacon had died intestate. Each of the parties
submitted conclusions of law to be deduced by the court from
the facts stated. To a proposition submitted for the defendant, upholding her claim to an undivided one third interest
in the property, the plaintiff duly excepted as follows:
"II.Plaintiff excepts to the proposed conclusion of law
numbered II on the ground that it is contrary to the findings
of fact and the law; on the further ground that under the
laws in force at the time the property was purchased and
the deed taken, E. G. Bacon was the owner of the property,
and was entitled to the succession to all the property in case
of the prior death of Mrs. Bacon, and that at the death of
Mrs. Bacon, in 1880, Mr. Bacon was the owNer in fee simple
of all said property; that to give the law of 1879, entitled
'An act regulating and defining the property rights of husband and wife,' approved November 14, 1879, the construe'tion, effect and force given by the court, to wit, that it took
.away from Mr. Bacon the right of succession to the whole
of the property and the right to dispose of it, would be to

WARBURTON v. WHITE.
Opinion of the Court.

give it a retroactive force, contrary to section 31 of said act,
and to give it such a retroactive force and take away the
right of survivorship in said property, and take away the right
to dispose of it would be contrary to article 1, section 10,
of the Constitution of the United States, in that it would
impair the obligation of the deed or contract by which
:Mr. Bacon acquired said property, and would deprive'said
Bacon, his successors and assigns, of the right of survivorship in the property in controversy, which was a vested
right under the contract or deed and the laws in force in
the Territory at the time the property was acquired. Plaintiff further excepts to said co nclusion on the ground that. if
said law is given said effect and force above mentioned it
would be depriving Mr. Bacon, his successors and assigns, of
property without due process of- law, and contrary to and
in contravention of amendments of the Constitution of the
United States, and plaintiff claims the protection of both said
provisions of the Constitution of the United States."
The court decided as matter of law .that the defendant
Mrs. White was, as claimed by her, the owner of an undivided one third interest in the property, and was entitled to
a decree quieting her title thereto. From the decree there-upon entered, so far as it sustained the claim of said defendant, the plaintiff appealed to the Supreme Court of the State
of Washington. That court affirmed the judgment and denied a petition for rehearing. 18 Wash. St. 511. 'A writ
of error having been allowed, the cause is now here for
review.
.. Warburton for plaintiff in error.
.1eRenney was on his brief.

Mr. Frederic D.

Mr. Cha'lem 8. Fogg for defendant in error. .r.
.Hamilton Lewis was on his brief.

Jame8

MR. JusTioE Wrrn, after making the foregoing statement,

delivered the opinion of the court.
The law of the Territory of Washington approved Novem-

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

her 14, 1879, provided that in case of intestacy the share of
a deceased husband or wife, in community property, should
pass to the legal issue of the intestate, and in default of such
issue should go to the surviving husband or wife, as the case
might be. It is undoubted that if the decision of this cause
is to be controlled by this enautment, there is no error in the
record.
The error asserted is predicated on the claim that, under the
laws of the Territory of Washington existing at the time the
property was bought, there was in fact no such thing as community property, since by those laws property bought during
marriage with community funds was subject to the disposition
of the husband as if it were his separate property, and he was
entitled to the whole of the community property in case of the
death of his wife before him. The effect of this state of the
law in force at the time of the purchase, it is claimed, was in
substance to make him the real owner of the property.
The argument is that if the provisions of the law of 1879,
previously referred to, conferring on the husband or wife testamentary power to dispose of his or her interest in the 'community property subject to the community debts, and also
providing that in case of intestacy such interest, subject to the
debts aforesaid, should descend to the children of the deceased
and should only pass to the survivor in default of issue, be
given a retroactive effect so as to be operative upon property
acquired before the act of 1879, the consequence will be to
impair the obligations of the contract of purchase made by the
husband, which is at issue in this case, and besides to deprive
him of his property without due process of law. This, it is
asserted, will be the necessary legal effect, since to cause the
statute of 1879 to be operative, upon community property
bought by the husband before the enactment of that statute,
will be the equivalent of giving.to one person the testamentary
power to dispose of the property of another person, or, in the
absence of a will, amounts to providing that the death of one
person intestate shall transmit to the issue of such person
property not owned by the deceased intestate, but which
belongs to a'nother and distinct living person.

WARBURTON v. WHITE.
Opinion of the Court.

It is manifest that this proposition rests upon the. assumption
that the act of 1873 which was in force when the property
was bought by the husband, with community money, made
the property so bought solely and exclusively that of the husband, and hence that the wife had no community interest in it.
This follows because if under the act of 1873, the wife had a
community interest in property bought with funds of that
character, then the transmission of the wife's estate in accordance with the act of 1879, and contrary to the rule of desbent
provided by the act of 1875, in force at the time the property
was purchased, cannot possibly bring about the consequences
upon which the argument is based. The result just stated
must be the case, since if when the property was acquired the
wife had an interest in it, the mere change of the law or rule
of inheritance existing when the property was bought would
be lawful. Manifestly the proposition that the Territory of
Washington had a right to regulate both the power of testamentary disposition of property and the passage thereof in
case of intestacy is too elementary to require more than mere
statement.
The fallacy which is involved in the contention that under
the laws in force at the time the property was bought by the
husband, with community money, it became exclusively his,
and that the wife had no community interest therein, is plainly
demonstrated by a consideration of the import of the laws of
Washington existing at the time the purchase was made, as
construed both by the Supreme Court of the Territory and of
'the State of Washington. To these adjudications we shall now
refer.
The nature of common or community property, within tle
Territory of Washington, as such 1property was constituted by
the act of 1873, and the operation of the act of 1879 upon
property of that character acquired prior to the passage of
the latter act was considered in 1882 in the case of Holyoke
v. Jack8on, 3 Wash. Ter. 235. The question for decision in
that case was whether, while the act of 1879 was in force, a
husband could, without his wife joining, make a valid contract
to sell community property acquired prior to 1879. In decid-

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.

I

Opinion of the Oourt.

ing this question in the negative the court, in the course of the
opinion, said (p. 238) :
"By the provisions of the husband and wife acts passed in
1879, and previously, the husband and wife were conceived as
constituting together a compound creature of the statute cc led
a community.

.

.

In it the proprietary interest of hus-

band and wife are equal, and those interests do not seem to be
united merely, but unified; not mixed or blent, but identified.
It is sui generis-'a creature of the statute. By virtue of the
statute this husband and wife creature acquires property.
That property must be procurable, manageable, convertible
and transferable in some way. In somebody must be vested
a power in behalf of the community to deal with and dispose
of it. To somebody it must go in case of death or divorce.
Its exemptions and liabilities as to indebtedness must be defined. All this is regulated by statute. Management and disposition may be vested in either one or both of the members.
If in one, then that one is not thereby made the holder of
larger proprietary rights than the other, but is clothed, in
addition to his or her proprietary rights, with a bare power in"
trust for the community. This power the statute of 1873
chose to lay upon the husband, while the statute of 1879
thought proper to take it from the husband and lay it upon
the husband and wife together. As the husband's 'like absolute power of disposition as of his own separate estate,' be,stowed by the ninth section of the act of 1873, was a mere
power conferred upon him as a member and head of the community in trust for the community, and not a proprietary
right, it was perfectly competent for the legislature of 1879
to take it from him and assign it to himself and his wife conjointly. This was done."
In 1893, the Supreme Court of the State of Washington, in
the case of ill v. Young, 7 Wash. St. 33, considered the
nature of common or community property under the act of
the Territory approved December 2, 1869, defining the rights
of husband and wife. The provisions of the acts of 1869 and
1873, it may be added, were identical, the act 1869 having been
repealed by an act passed in 1871. The suit was for partition

WARBURTON v. WHITE.
Opinion of the Court.

of land which had been acquired by a husband with community funds, while the act of 1869 was in force. The husband
still held title to the community property in 1883, when the
wife died, .leaving a child and her husband surviving. It was
contended that the power to dispose of the common property
conferred by section 2 of the act of 1869 upon the husband
was a vested right which could not be taken away by any subsequent statute. Replying to this contention, the court said
(p. 38) :
• "But it is not necessary to decide this point. The act
of
1869 having declared certain property 'common" property, did
not make provision for the disposal of such property upon the
death of either spouse, as was done by later laws on the same
subject; but we think that, without anything further than was
contained in that act, the courts of the Territory would have
been bound to administer upon such property, after the death
of husband or wife, according to the established rules of those
States and countries where common or community property
laws had existed. The first and cardinal of such rules was
that the community was dissolved by the decease of either
spouse; next the right of disposal in either spouse was ended;
and, third, the property became vested by moieties in the survivor and the children. Therefore, upon the death of Irs.
Hill, in 1883, even if the act of 1869 was the only law applicable to this land, the right of the husband to dispose of the
whole estate terminated."
In the subsequent case of Mabaei v. Whittaker, 10 Wash. St.
656, the provisions of the law of 1869 were again considered.
Land had been purchased on August 10, 1871, by one Alabie,
with community funds, during the eiistence of the Act of 1869.
While Mabie held the legal title, the legislature repealed the
act of 1869, and on November 29, 1871, an act was approved
which, in section 12, provided that the husband should have
the management of all the common property, but should not
have the right to sell or incumber real estate without the
joinder of his wife. By. section 22 it was provided that common property should be partnership property, and that the
share of the wife should be one half thereof, and should be to

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

her and her heirs forever. On October 25, 1874, after the
death of his wife leaving issue, Mabie executed a deed purporting to convey all of the land to one Hallett. Ejectment
was brought bi the surviving child to be let into possession of
the land as tenant in common, etc. It Ax;s coiitended for the
defendants that whatever the nature of the interest of Mrs.
Mabie in the land, the right of Mabie under the act of 1869,
in force when the land wag purchased and title taken- by
Mabie, to convey the entire title could not be impaired by'sub.sequent legislation. The court, however, said (p. 65?):.
"But, leaving out of consideration all question as to whether
he could only exercise such right while hiswife was living,
and could not convey the entire title, under the former law,
after her death, and cut off her heirs, we think the subsequent.
act took away his power to do so. It was immaterial whether
the record title to the community lands stood in the name of
the husband or of the wife, or of both of them, when considered with reference to the power of the legislature to authorize either or both of them to convey. The legislature icouldas well have provided that the wife could convey, as the husband; and if it had power to say that either could dispose of
the community interest of the other, it could say that neither
could do so. Changing the manner of the conveyance did not
alter the status of ownership. It could not make the interest
of either spouse in community lands greater or less. FurtherInore, prior to the conveyance to Hallett, the community in
question had been dissolved by the death of the wife, and at
the time of her death the law of 1871, relating to the descent
of community property, was in force. Laws 1871, p. 73, sec.
22; Abb. Real Prop. St. 4,78, provided that: 'The common.
property being partnership property, the wife's share shall be
one half thereof and shall be hers and her heirs forever; -and
her share of the common property may be increased so as to
be more than one half, by the wife's compliance with the provisions of section five of .this act.'"
In the course of the opinion, disdussing and. overrulitig a
further contention, based upon the common law, that Mabie
and wife held the landin question as joint tenants with a right
of survivorship, the court said (p. 659):

WARBURTON v. WHITE.
Opinion of the Court.

"The act of 1869 did not fix the status of such property,
other than to declare it to be common property, and made no
provision for its descent. Nor was ther; at that time, nor for
some time thereafter, any express legislative recognition of
estates in joint tenancy.
"The statute of 1871 did not undertake to divest any right
which had become vested. Mabie, receiving this conveyance
under the act of 1869, thereby became the owner of an undivided one half interest in the land, and his wife thereby
became the owner of the other half. Her right was as much
a vested right as his. Under the weight of authority, the legislature had power to change the law of descent, and could
take away the right of survivorship, as to estates in joint tenancy, and make the same applicable to lands already acquired.
Cooley Const. Lim. 5th ed. 440; Freem. Coten. see. 36, and
cases cited by each; also 3iiMer v. Dennett, 6 N. H. 109.
Section 22, aforesaid, is substantially a statute of descent. It
has the technical and apt words of such a statute, 'hers and
her heirs forever,' which indicate the legislative intent. There
was also a general statute of descent in -force, which could
more logically be applied to community estates than could the
doctrine of joint tenancy. St. 1862, p. 261 ; Abb. Real Prop.
St. 375-378. Subsequently, another act was passed to regulate the descent of real property. Laws 1875, p. 55. Section
2 provided, 'Upon the death of husband and wife, the whole
of the community property, subject to the community debts,
shall go to the survivor.' This statute continued in force until
November, 1879, when an act was passed (Laws 1879, p. 77),
section 13 of which was as follows: 'In case no testamentary
disposition shall have been made by the deceased husband or
wife of his or her half of the community property,-it shall
descend equally to the legitimate issue of his, her or their
bodies. If there be no issue of said deceased living, or none
of their representatives living, then the said community property shall all pass to the survivor subject to the community
debts, and to the exclusion of collateral heirs, the family
allowance and the charges and expenses of administration.'

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

In neither of these acts were community lands referred to as
being held in joint tenancy, and the only reference of the
kind thereto is contained in the act aforesaid, passed in 1885,
subsequent to all of them."
Next discussing the proposition that a partnership was not a
joint tenancy, the court, after calling attention to the fact that
by the act of 1871 provision was made for the descent of the
wife's share in community property, thus cutting off the husband's right of succession as survivor, concluded on that branch
of the case as follows (p. 662):
"We know of no instance, judicial or otherwise, where such
doctrine of joint tenancy has been recognized or applied, in the
history of the State and Territory, and none has been called to
our attention. We are of the opinion that the universal belief
and course of acting has been contrary thereto, and that the
right of taking by survivorship has at no time existed, as to
community lands, here, except under the statute of 1875, providing for such descent."
The rule announced in the foregoing cases was reiterated in
the opinion delivered in the case at bar, it being held that Bacon
did not become the sole owner of the property in question by
the purchase in 1877, but that it became and continued community property so long as the community existed, and that the
descent of such property was subjeqt to regulation at will by the
legislature.
Now, it cannot in reason be denied that the decisions from
.which we have just quoted held that the purpose of the legislature of Washington, whether territorial or state, in the
creation of community property, was to adopt the features
essentially inhering in what is denominated the community system -that is, that property acquired during marriage with
community funds became an acquit of the community and not
the sole property of the one in whose name the property was
bought, although by the law existing at the time the husband
was given the management, control and power of sale of such
property. This right being vested in him, not because he was
the exclusive owner, but because by law he was created the
agent of the community. The proceeds of the property when

WARBURTON v. WHITE.
OpInion of the Court.

sold by him becoming an acquit. of the community, subject to
the trust which -the statute imposed upon the husband, from
the very nature of the property relation engendered by the
provision for the community.
The argument of the.plaintiff in error then comes to this:
That although the statutes of the Territory of Washington,
which were continued in force within the State on the organization of the state government, have been construed by the
state court contrary to the view now urged upon this court,
nevertheless this court should disregard such judicial construction and treat the statutes as conferring rights which the highest tribunal of the State has held never arose from them. Ii
is claimed that where a contract is asserted to have been
impaired by a subsequent statute it is the duty of this court to
determine for itself the nature and extent of the contract, where
the subsequent legislation has been by the decision of the court
held operative upon or enforced against the alleged contract
rights. The doctrine is elementary, but the principle which it
embodies is subject to a well-settled qualification, which is, that
where it is asserted that a contract has been entered into on the
faith of the state laws, existing at the time when it was made,
the construction of such laws, which was settled at the time of
the making of the contract, by the court of lastresort of the
State, will be adopted and applied by this court in considering
the nature of the contract right relied Vpon. This rule, however, it is argued, is not applicable in this case, because it is said
that all the decisions of the Supreme Court of Washington
referred to were announced since the contract of purchase by
the husband was made, and therefore the interpretation, which
these decisions expound, cannot be considered as having entered
into and formed a part of the contract, since they were not in
existence when the contract was made. From this it is argued
that the decisions in question do not, therefore, relieve this court
of the duty of interpreting for itself, as a mhtter of first impression, the laws of the Territory or of the State of Washington
which are here involved, and upon the faith of which, it is
asserted, the obligations arising from the contract took being.
Whilst abstractly considered the proposition is conceded, it

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

is not apposite to the controversy here presented. .The rule is
subject to a limitation, which is, that where state decisions have
interpreted state laws governing real property or controlling
relations which are essentially of a domestic and state nature;
in other words, where the state decisions establish a rule of
property, this court when called upon to interpret the state
law will, if it is possible to do so, in the discharge of its duty,
adopt and follow the settled rule of construction amfixed by the
state court of last resort to the statutes of the State, and thus
conform to the rule of property within the State. It is undoubted that this rule obtains, even although the decisions of
the state court, from which the rule of property arises, may
have been for the first time announced subsequent to the period
when a particular contract was entered into. Burges v. Seligman, 107 U. S. 20, 34; liller v. Ammon, 145 U. S. 421, 423.
Applying the principle just stated to the case before us, ve
feel no hesitation in construing the contract of purchase, which
is here in question, in accordance with the nature and extent
of community property, as settled by the decisions of the
Supreme Court of Washington, interpreting the laws which
were in existence when the purchase was made. Obviously,
the reasoning of the plaintiff in error, upon which the assumption that community property bought during the existence
of the act of 1873 was solely the property of the husband,
involves not only a contradiction in terms but invokes at the
hands of this court, in order to overthrow the rule of propertyin the State of Washington, an interpretation of the statutes
of that State which is not only confusing, but self-destructive.
It cannot be doubted, under the text of the act of 1873, the
property relations of hhsband and wife were controlled by
what is denominated the community system, and that in consonance therewith the statute referred to treated property acquired during marriage with community money as community
or common property. Although this is patent, the argument
is that the provision in the statute giving the administration
and disposition of the community property to the husband
operated to destroy the community system and render it impossible, under the statute, for community or common property

WARBURTOIT v. WHITE.
Opinion of the Court.

to exist. In other words, the interpretation relied upon asked
us to say that because of a provision which simply pointed out
how common property should be administered, it resulted that
there was no c6mmon property to be administered. This
would be but to declare that the statute brought about.a
result which was contrary to its express language, providing
for the existence of the communitysystem. It is a misconcepItioii of that system to suppose that because power was vested
in the husband to dispose of the community acquired during
marriage, as if -it were his own, therefore by law the community property belongedsolely to the husband. The conferring
on the husband the legal agency to administer and dispose of
the property involved no negation of the community, since the
common ownership would attach to the result of the sale of
the property. As the property in question had not been sold
by the husband, but on the contrary was held by him at the
date of the death of the wife, no question is presented on this
record of the nature and scop6 of his authority during thb
existence of tha marriage, and.we intimate no opinion on that

subject.
We have been cited to a decision of the Supreme Court of
California,. 4Sreckel8 v. Sreckels, 116 Cal. 339, construing an
act somewhat similar to the Washington act of 1873, which it
is claimed is in conflict with the views enunciated by the courts
of Washington iai determining the proper construction of the
statute of 1873 and the nature of an estate vested in a husband
by virtue of that act. :But the case referred to involed only
the validity of the exercise by a husband, during the existence
of a community, of the power of dominion and control over the
,community property, and the right of the legislature to modify such authority and control with respect to prior acquired
community property. We are, therefore, unable to perceive
the pertinency of that decision to the question arising-for determination on this record, and we need not, therefore, review or
consider it.
There being no error in the judgment of the Supreme Court
Affirmed.
of the State of Washington, that judgment is
VOL. CLXXVI-32

