BOLLN v. NEBRASKA.
Statement of the Case.
16

BOLLN v. NEBRASKA.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEBRASKA.
No. 893. Argued December 4, 5,1899. -Decided

831

11176 841I
1176 6 .

January 15,1900.

A law of Nebraska ermitting the prosecution of felonies by information
is not in violation of the Constitution of the United States.
Whatever be the limitations -upon the power of a territorial government,
it becomes entitled, upon the admission of such Territory as a State, to
all the rights of dominion and sovereignty belonging to the original
States, and stands upon an equal footing with them in all respects.
An objection that"a defendant was denied due process of law in being ren
fused a jury trial upon a plea in abatement, cannot be raised here, when
no violation of the Fourteenth Amendment was set up until after the
cause had been decided by the Supreme Court of the State.

THIs is a writ of error to'review a judgment of the Supreme
Court of Nebraska, affirming a conviction of the plaintiff in
error by the distri4t court of Douglas County, for the crime
of embezzlement.
The proceedings in' the case, so far as they are disclosed by
the record before us, which was agreed upon under subdivision nine of rule ten of this court, are as follows:
On A,-'il 2, 1896, an information was filed by the county
attorney for the county of .Douglas against the plaintiff in
error, both as city treasurer of the city of Omaha and as
treasurer of the board of eduation, for embezzling moneys
belonging to the city as well as moneys belonging to the
school district.
On April 4, a motion to quash was filed upon four grounds:
(1) That there was no a uthority of law to file an information
for a felony; (2 and 3) because the prosecution was in contravention of the constitution of the State; and (4) because it
was in contravention of article fourteen of the Constitution
of the United States, and was without due process of law.
On the same day a paper was filed, entitled a plea in abatement, which prayed judgment that the information might be
quashed for the same reasons, and in precisely the words of
the motion to quash.

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Statement of the Case.

On the same day, a demurrer was filed to the "eighteen
paragraphs" of the plea in abatement, upon the ground that
these paragraphs did not state facts sufficient to constitute a
defence, or to raise an issue upon the plea.
Upon the same day, an order was entered overruling the
motion to quash, to which the defendant excepted.
On April 6, another order was entered sustaining the demurrer as to the eighteen "reasons therein set forth," except
the ninth; and "the court doth overrule the said demurrer
as to the ninth reason therein set forth, with leave to the
State to reply instanter." The State duly excepted to the
ruling as to the ninth reason.
On the same day, a "reply to the ninth paragraph of the
defendant's plea in abatement" was filed by the State, admitting that the defendant had had "no preliminary examination
for said crime referred to in said ninth paragraph," but alleging that he waived such preliminary examination and his right
thereto, as shown by the records of the court.
On April 8, 1896, a demurrer was filed to the information,
and upon the same day both parties appeared in court, and
announced their readiness to proceed to trial upon the ninth
paragraph in defendant's. plea in abatement. Thereupon the
defendant demt.oded a trial by jury, and the court,, on consideration, overruled the demand, to which ruling the defendant duly excepted. After- introduction of evidence, pro and
con, and upon due consideration, the court found that the
defendant had waived a preliminary examination, and therefore found against him, and overruled the ninth paragraph
of the plea in abatement. By the same order the demurrer
was also overruled. The defendant being arraigned, refused
to plead, whereupon the court entered a plea of not guilty,
.and the trial proceeded, and resulted in a verdict finding the
'defendant guilty upon the fourth count of embezzling $2500;
upon the ninth count of embezzling $3000, and upon the
eleventh count of embezzling $100,000.
Mvfotion for a new trial being overruled, defendant was sentenced to hne and imprisonment upon the fourth, ninth and
eleventh counts.

BOLLN v. NEBRASKA.
Opinion of the Court.

The case was carried to the Supreme Court of Nebraska
and the judgment affirmed. The court delivered an opinion,
in which it'stated that "a plea in abatement was filed, to
which the county attorney interposed a demurrer, which was
overruled as to the ninth ground of the plea, and sustained as
to the other seventeen grounds therein set forth." The petition in error, it was stated, contained 279 assignments, the
only ones of which could be said to involve a Federal question
being, first, that the State had no authority to prosecute by
information, and, second, the refusal of the court to call a
jury to pass upon the issue tendered by the ninth paragraph
of the plea in abatement, that the defendant waived a preliminary examination before the magistrate. *This opinion was
filed May 18, 1897. 51 Nebraska, 581.
On September 20, 1897, plaintiff in error filed in the Supreme
Court of the State assignments of error which appear to have
been intended for this court, and on September 18, 1899,
served upon the- attorney general a petition to this court for
the 'allowance of a writ of error upon the ground, first, that
the plaintiff was convicted upon an information, and, second,
because he had been denied a jury trial upon the 'issue tendered by special plea, that*he 'had had no preliminary examination and'had not waived the same.
.A1. Joel W. WVest for plaintiff in error.
-Mr. Con8tantine J Sm yth for defendant in error.
.fter making the above statement,
delivered the opinion of the court.
MR. JusTICE BRowN;

Two questions were raised in the briefs and argument of
the plaintiff in error: First, that a proceeding by information
for a felony was not, so far as the State of Nebraska is concerned, due process of law, under the Fourteenth Amendment
to the- Constitution of the United States. Second, that the
trial by the court, without a jury, of the issue raised by the
ninth ilea in abatement, whether the defendant had waived
a preliminary examination, was not-due process of law.

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

1. The first question, so far as it applies to States in general,
was settled adversely to the insistence of the plaintiff inerror
in Hurtadov. California, 110 U. S. 516, in which it was held
,'hat a prosecution for murder did not necessarily require an
indictment by a grand jury, where the constitution of, the
State authorized prosecutions for felonies by information.
Subsequent cases have done nothing to weaken or qualify the
force of this decision. Its principle was applied in In re
Kemmler, 136 U. S.436, to a law of New York providing for
the punishment of death by electricity; in Dent v. West Firginia, 129 U. S. 114, to a statute subjecting physicians to pun-ishment who practised medicine without a certificate as to
their competency; in Caldwell v. Texas, 137 U. S. 692, to a
statutory indictment for murder under the laws of Texas;
and in Ballinger v. Davis, 146 U. S. 314, to a state statute
conferring upon one charged with crime the right to waive a
trial by jury, and to elect to be tried by the court. It was
also cited with approval in Baldwin v. Kansas, 129 U. S.52;
Leeper v. Texas, 139 U. S.462; . eANulty v. California, 149
U. S. 645; Holden v. Harvey, 169 U. S.383, and in Hagar v.

Reclamation District,111

U. S. 701.

It is insisted, however, that under the act of Congress of
April 19, 1864, 13 Stat. 47, enabling the people of Ne-,aska
to form a constitution and state government for admission
into the Union, the power given to that State is restricted in
that particular. After authorizing the inhabitants to form
for themselves a constitution and state government, and providing for a constitutional convention, the fourth section of
the act required "that the members of the convention
shall declare, on behalf of the people of said Territory, that
they adopt the Constitution of the United States; whereupon
the state convention shall be, and it is hereby, authorized to
form a constitution and state government." We are informed,
however, as a matter of history, in Brittle v. The People, 2
Nebraska, 198, that, the people of the Territory being at that
time opposed to becoming a State, the convention adjourned
sine die without taking, action beyond its own organization.
SubsequQntly, however, the territorial legislature, without

BOLLN v. NEBRASKA.
Opinion of the Court.

calling a convention, framed'a constitution which was submitted to and adopted by the people at an election held
June 21, 1866. This constitution contained the following
provision (schedule, sec. 6): "This constitution is formed, and
the State of Nebraska asks to be admitted into the Union on
an equal footing with the original States, on the condition
and faith of the terms and proposition stated and specified in
an act of Congress, approved April nineteenth, 1864, authorizing the people of the Territory to form a constitution and
state government; the people of the State of Nebraska hereby
accepting the conditions in said act specified."
At its following session and on February 9, 1867, 14 Stat.
391, c. 36, Congress passed another act admitting the State of
Nebraska into the Union "upon an equal footing with the
original States, in all respects whatsoever," though the second
section of this act declared "that the State of Nebraska shall
be, and is hereby, declared to be entitled to all the rights, privileges, grants and immunities, and to be subject to all the
conditions and restrictions of an act entitled ' Ah act to enable
the people of Nebraska to form a constitution and state government, and for the admission of such State into the Union
on an equal footing with the original States.'"
The argument of the plaintiff in error in this connection is
bat, by these acts, the people of Nebraska adopted the Constitution of the United tates, and thereby the first eight amendments containing the bill of rights became incorporated in the
constitution of the State, and that the right to proceed for
felonies, other than by an indictment of a grand jury, (as required by the Fifth Amendment,) was taken away from such
State.
But conceding all that can be claimed in this connection,
and that the State of Nebraska-did enter the Union under the
condition of the enabling act, and that it adopted the Constitution of the United States as its fundamental law, all that
was meant by these words was that the State acknowledged,
as every other State has done, the supremacy of the Federal
Constitution. The first section of the act of 1867, admitting
the State into the Union, declared: "that itis hereby admitted

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

into the Union upon an equal footing with the original States
in all respects whatsoever." It is impossible to suppose that,
by such indefinite language as was used in the enabling act,
Congress intended to differentiate Nebraska from her sister
States, even if it had the power to do so, and attempt to impose more onerous conditions upon her than upon them, or
that in cases arising in Nebraska a different construction
should be given to her constitution from that given to the
constitutions of other States. But this court has held in
many cases that, whatever be the limitations upon the power
of a territorial government they cease to have any operative
force, except as voluntarily adopted after such Territory has
become a State of the Union. Upon the admission of a State
it becomes entitled to and possesses all the rights of dominion
and sovereignty which belonged to. the original States, and,
in the language of the act of 1867 admitting the State of Ne-braska, it stands "upon an equal footing with the original States
in all respects whatsoever." Escanaba Company v. Chicago,
107 U. S. 678; Cardwell v. American Bridge Co., 113 U. S.
205 ; Willamette Zron Bridge Co. v. HYatch, 125 U. S. 1; Mard
v. Racehorse, 163 U. S. 504:. Indeed, the legislation of Congress connected with the admission of Nebraska into the Union,
so far as it bore upon the question of citizenship, was fully
considered by this court .in the case of Boyd v. Thayer, 143
U. S. 135, and the conclusion reached that upon its admission
into the Union the citizens. of what had been the Territory
became the citizens of the United States and of the State.
This court has also repeatedly held that the first eight
amendments to the constitution applied only to the Federal
courts, and it certainly could never have been intended that
these amendments should be imposed upon Nebraska, and
thereby a hard and fast rule made for that State that would
forever preclude amendments inconsistent with the bill of
rights of the Federal Constitution, and which this court has
held to be applicable only to Federal courts. As we have
repeatedly held, the Fourteenth Amendment was not intended
to curtail the powers of the States to so amend their laws as
to make them conform to the wishes of their citizens, to

BOLLIS v. NEBRASKA.
Opinion of the Court.

changed views of administration, or to the exigencies of their
social life.' It may be readily supposed that the inhabitants
of each State understand perfectly their own local needs and
interests, and, with the facilities with which the constitutions
of the several States may be amended, it is scarcely possible
that any evil which imight be occasioned byan improvident
amendment would not, be readily redressed. Not only did
Congress in the act of 1867 declare that Nebraska was admitted upon an equal footing with the original States, but the
whole Federal system is based upon the fundamental principle
of the equality of the States under the Constitution. The
idea that one State is debarred, while the others are granted,
the privilege of amending their organic laws to conform to the
wishes of their inhabitants, is so repugnant to the theory of
their equality under the Constitution, that it cannot be entertained even if Congress had power to make such discrimination. We are, therefore, of opinion that the provision of the
constitution of Nebraska, permitting prosecutioiis for felony
by information, does not conflict with the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution of the United States.
2. We do not find it necessary to consider the question,
whether the court denied to the defendant due process of law,
in refusing a jury trial upon the question whether he had
waived a preliminary examination before the magistrate.
The statute of Nebraska, providing for the prosecution of
offences by information, requires that "no information shall
be filed against any person for any offence until such person
shall have had a preliminary exhmination therefor, .
unless such person shall waive his right to such examination."
A plea in abatement is said to have been filed upon that ground;
but the only plea in abatement which appears in the transcript
of the record before us sets forth but four grounds: First,
that there was no authority of law for the filing of an inforination charging the defendant with a felony; second, because
the defendant, under the state constitution, was granted immunity from answering to a criminal charge, except upon
presentment or indictment by a grand jury'; third, because
this prosecution is in contravention of the state constitution,

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

guaranteeing that no person shall be deprived of life or liberty
without due process of law; fourth, because this prosecution
is in contravention of the Fourteenth Amendment of the
Constitution of the United States. It is true that, in the demurrer to this plea, and in the order sustaining such demurrer,
it would appear that there were eighteen grounds for the plea
in abatement; and that as to the ninth ground, the demurrer
was overruled, with leave to the State to reply instanter.
From the reply to the plea in abatement it would appear that
the ninth paragraph of the plea set up the fact that the defendant did not have a preliminary examination as required
by law, the reply alleging that he waived it; but nowhere in
the plea in abatement does it appear what thi§ ninth paragraph
was, although the judgment of the court was "-that the defendant waived a preliminary examination before the examining
magistrate, and therefore finds against the defendant, and
overrules the said ninth paragraph of the said plea in abatement." As the opinion of the Supreme Court also discusses
the ruling of the court below denying to the defendant a jury
trial upon this ninth paragraph, we may, perhaps, be at liberty
to take notice of it; although in subdivision nine of rule ten,
under which this iecord was printed, it is said that the court
will consider nothing but those parts of the record designated
by the parties, and the errors so stated.
But, without expressing a decided opinion upon this point,
.weare confronted by another difficulty in the fact that it is
nowhere alleged in the record that a denial to the defendant
of a jury trial of this issue was violative of the Constitution of
the United States. It is tiue that in the fourth paragraph
of the plea in abatement it is said that "this prosecution is
in the contravention" of the Fourteenth Amendment, but
this evidently refers to the prior paragraphs, which"deal only
with a prosecution by indictment. In the opinion of the
court discussing this question, no allusion is made to the
denial of this jury. trial being in conflict with the Fourteenth
Amendment, and it is only in the assignments of error, filed
in the Supreme Court of the State four months after its judgment of affirmance, that the defendant sets it up as the denial

BOLTN v. NEBRASKA.
Opinion of the Court.

of a Federal right. Indeed, itnowhere appears inthe record or
in the opinion of the Supreme Court that the denial of a jury
trial of this issue was claimed to be in contiavention even of the
state constitution. The question is discussed by the court as
one of general law, and it is only the prosecution by information that the court discusses as a constitutional question.
On November 10, 18.99, the Chief Justice of the Supreme
Court of Nebraska certifies that the only reference made by
the plaintiff in error to the Constitution of the United States
is set forth in certain language quoted from his brief. From
this brief it would appear that the denial of the right of trial
by jury upon the question of waiver of preliminary examination was set up as a violation of the constitutional provision of
Nebraska, that "the right of a trial by jury shall remain inviolate;" but it nowhere appears that it was claimed to be in
violation of any 6ther provision of the Constitution, or of the
Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution of the United
State.
Upon this state of the reco.rd we are unable to say that the
decision of the court below was against a title, right, privilege
or immunity, specially set up or claimed by either party,
under the Constitution of the United States.
. We have repeatedly decided 'that an appeal to.the jurisdiction of this court must not be a mere afterthought, and that
if any right, privilege or immunity is asserted under the Constitution or laws of the United States it must be specially set
up and claimed before the final adjudication of the case in
the court from which the appeal is sought" to be maintained.
It is true that this court has sometimes held that, if a Federal
question appear in the record and was decided, or such decision was necessarily involved in the case, and that such case
could not have been determined without deciding such question, the fact that it was not specially set up and claimed is
not conclusive against a review here; but such cases have
usually, if not always, arisen under the first or second clauses
of section 09, and have involved the validity of a treaty,
statute or authority exercised uider the United States, or the
validity of a statute or authority exercised under a State,

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Statement of the Case.

where such statute or authority is alleged to be repugnant to
the Constitution or the laws of the United States. Columbia
Watei Power Co. v. Columbia Street Railway &c. Co., 172
U'. S. 475. In the case under consideration the right to a
trial by jury is claimed under the Constitution of the United
States; but as it was never set up or claimed prior to the
decision of the Supreme Court of the State, it is too late to
raise the question here.
The fact that the defendant did set up in his plea in abatement his immunity from prosecution upon an information of
the county attorney, clearly appears, .but we are not at liberty
to consider other constitutional questions which might have
been involved, if they had been properly set up and claimed.
The observations of this court in Dewey v. Des .foine8, 173
U. S. 193, are conclusive against our consideration of this
question.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of the State of Nebraska is therefore
.4frmed.
MR. Jus=IC

RAuLb

dissented,

NEW ORLEANS v. WARNER.
PETITION FOR LIMETED REHEARING OF THE CASE REPORTED IN
175 U. s. AT PAGE *120.
No. 172. Distributed November 29, 1899. -Decded

January15, 1900.

The decree heretofore entered in this case is vacated, and a new decree is
"entered nun opro tuno as of March 13, 1899, affirming the decree of the
Circuit Court of Appeals in all respects.

THIS case was argued March 13, 1899, was decided November 13, 1899, and is reported in Volume 175 U. S., beginning
on page 120. The judgment of the court was expressed as
follows:
Our conclusion is that the decree of the Court of Appeals
be modified in respect of the date from which interest is to

