OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Statement of the Case.

Boton, 95 U. S. 33, 35. The view we have taken.of the proof
also conclusively negates the premise of fact upon which it is
argued that there was archive evidence of the grant, (as-this
premise must rest upon the testimony of Ramon Sena alone,)
and therefore brings the case directly under the rule laid down
in United States v. Cambuston, 20 How. 59; United StatJs v.
Castro,24 How. 346; United 8tates v. .Moorehead,1 Black, 227,
and Peraltav. United States, 3 Wall. 434.
It results that it becomes unnecessary to examine the legal
questions to which at the outset attention was called, and that
The-court below erred in conforming the grant,and its decree
so doing is.reversed and the cause Pemanded to that court
with directions to enter a decree rejecting the claim and dismissing the petition; and it is so ordered.

GUARANTY

SAYINGS BANK v. BLADOW.

ERROR TO THE FOURTH JUDICIAL DISTRICT COURT FOR RICHLAND
COUNTY,

NORTH. DAKOTA.

No. 184. Submitted Nanuary 81, 1900.-Decided February 26, 1900.

The power to review and set aside the action of local land officers exists in
the general land department.

When an entry is cancelled, after due notice to the entryman, and after a
hearing in the case, it Is conclusive against him everywhere, upon all
questions of fact; and it cannot be regarded as a mere nullity, when set
up against his mortgagee, even though such mortgagee had no notice of
the proceeding to cancel the certificate.
Such an entry does not trafisfer the title to the land, but simply furnishes
primafacie evidence of an equitable claim for a patent, and the use of
the certificate for that purpose is subject to be destroyed by its official
cancellation.

THIS action was brought to foreclose a mortgage, owned by
the plaintiff in error, upon certain land in North Dakota which
the defendant in error claimed was his, and not subject to the
lien of the mortgage. It was brought in the proper state

GUARANTY SAVINGS BANK v. BLADOW.

449

Statement of the Case.

court, and the trial resulted in a judgment in favor of the
defendant, declaring him to be the owner of the land; that the
mortgage of the plaintiff in error was no lien upon it, and that
it should be cancelled as an apparent cloud upon the title of
the defendant.
The plaintiff appealed from this judgment to the Supreme
Court of the State, where it was affirmed, 6 N. D. 108; 69
N. W. Rep. 41, and the case was brought here on writ of error.
The material facts are as follows: On January 6, 1881, one
Anderson filed in the proper land office at Fargo, in the then
Territory of Dakota, his homestead application to enter the
land which is involved in this action. On July 20, 1881, he
appeared before the register and receiver, and, under section
2301, Revised Statutes, commuting his homestead to a pregmption entry, made final proof of his claim, which was allowed
and a final certificate issued, which was filed in the office of
the register of deeds of the proper county on July 25, 1881.
After the filing, of proof, and on July 20, 1881, Anderson
mortgaged the land to one HE. E. Fletcher, who on June 20, 1882,
assigned the mortgage to the plaintiff. Both the mortgagee
and the assignee acted in good faith, and each instrument was
executed for a valuable consideration.
On May 8, 1882, Anderson conveyed the land tb one R. M.
1883, conveyed the same to one J. S. Ink,
Ink, who on April '7,
and on January 6, 1885, J. S. Ink conveyed the premises to
the defendant.
All of the above were warranty deeds and duly recorded.
On March 14, 1882, after the final proof had been made by
Anderson and passed upon by the register and receiver of the
,land office, and the record had been transmitted to the General Land Office at Washington, the Commissioner held the
entry of Anderson upon said land, and directed the register
and receiver of the -local land office to hold the entry for cancellation, upon the ground that the testimony in the final
proof made by Anderson for the land in question was evasive
and failed to show six months' residence.
On January 22, 1886, the defendant filed in the land office
at Fargo his application and affidavit to contest the entry of
VOL. CLXVX-29

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Statement of the Case.

Anderson upon the land on the ground that the proof furnished
by Anderson upon that entry was false and that the entry was
fraudulent, and in that affidavit he set forth that Anderson had
never established his residence upon the land and had never
resided thereon and never made the same his home as provided
by the homestead laws of the United States.
The Commissioner of the General Land Office thereupon
ordered a hearing before the register and receiver at Fargo
between the defendant and Anderson as to the truth of the
allegations in defendant's affidavit and application for contest.
Due notice of the hearing was given to Anderson by publication, in accordance with an order of the register, which was
granted upon an affidavit that personal service could not be
made upon him.
At such hearing the defendant appeared with his witnesses
and gave evidence tending to establish the truth of the allegations in his affidavit of contest, but no appearance was made
or testimony offered by Anderson, and after the hearing the
evidence taken thereon was transmitted to the Commissioner
of the General Land Office at Washington, who, on the 14th
day of November, 1887, directed the entry of Anderson to
be cancelled as a fraudulent entry, ,vhich the register and
receiver of the land Office at Fargo thereafter did, and the
entry was duly cancelled of record as a fraudulent entry,
and the defendant was notified thereof. From this decision
Anderson took no appeal.
After the final decision of the Commissioner of the General
Land Office upon the contest and after the cancellation of
the entry of Anderson, the defendant made his homestead
entry upon the land, and on the 26th of April, 1893, submitted his final proof therefor, -which was passed upon by
the register and receiver and placed of record on that date,
and a final certificate in due form was then issued to him
by the register and receiver, and thereafter, on July 6, 1893,
the government issued to him a patent for the land, which
"was recorded on October 25, 1893.
No notice of the cancellation of the homesteadt entry and
certificate of Anderson was ever given to H. E. Fletcher,

GUARANTY SAVINGS BANK v. BLADOW.

451

Opinion of the Court.

the mortgagee, or to the plaintiff herein, his assignee, and
the cancellation was made without actual notice of the decision of the Commissioner of the General Land Office to either
Fletcher or the plaintiff, and neither Fletcher nor the plaintiff
was served with any notice of the contest of defendant involving the land, nor was either made a party defendant in that
contest.
'After the'cancellation and on June 15, 1891, plaintiff filed
in the United States land office at Fargo proof of its interest
as assignee of the mortgage, and moved that a patent be
issued under the provisions of section 7 of the act of March
3, 1891, o. 561, 26 Stat. 1095, 1098, which motion was denied
by the Commissioner of the General Land Office on August
13, 1891, and on appeal, by the Secretary of the Interior on
July 15, 1892.
The notes secured by the mortgage, not having been paid,
this action was brought to foreclose the same, and the defendant set up as a defenc*e the facts in relation to the entry of
Anderson and its cancellation and th issuing of the patent
to him as above set forth.
..Mr. S. B. Pinney, Xr. F. B. .olrril
Engerud, for plaintiff in error.
.M. W.
in error.

. Standisk and .M'. W.

MR. JUSTICE PECKHA,
opinion of the court.

and 21r. Edward

. Purcell for defendant

after stating the facts, delivered the

When Anderson obtained the decision of the register and
receiver upon his application for the land it was subject to
the power of the land department to review the judgment
of those officers, and, upon facts showing that the entry was
fraudulent, the department had power to cancel it. This
could be done upon the same evidence which was before the
register and receiver, and at least, upon notice to the party
entering the land. Although the power to review and to
cancel is not arbitrary or unlimited, and does not prevent

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

judicial inquiry in regard to its exercise, in some appropriate
form, yet it is unquestionable that the power of reviewing and
setting aside the action of the local land officers does exist in
the general land department. Orchard v. Alexander, 157
U. S. 372, where many of the cases upon the subject are
gathered in the opinion of the court.
In this case the Commissioner of the General Land Office at
Washington held the entry of Anderson upon the land, and
directed the register and receiver of the local office to hold
such entry for cancellation, upon the ground that the testimony in the final proof was evasive and failed to show six
months' residence. Subsequently, and upon sufficient notice
to him, the defendant. contested the entry of Anderson as
fraudulent, on the ground that the proof furnished by him
to procure it was false; that Anderson had never established
his residence upon the land, and never had, in fact, resided
thereon, and had never made the same his home, .as provided
by the laws of the United States.
A hearing was had before the register and receiver at Fargo,
due notice whereof was given to Anderson, who did not appear,
and the evidence taken upon the hearing was transmitted to the
Commissioner at Washington, who, on November 14, 1887,
directed that the entry of Anderson upon the lands should
be cancelled, and thereafter in the due and usual course of
business the register and receiver of 'the local office at Fargo
did cancel that entry of record.
If this were all no question could be raised in regard to the
regularity and sufficiency of the proceedings which ended in
the cancellation of Anderson's entry.
The difficulty, however, arises from the fact that before the
entry was cancelled, and onJuly 20,1881, Anderson mortgaged
his interest in the land to Fletcher, the mortgagee, who subsequently, as stated, assigned the'mortgage t6 the plaintiff in
error. Through various mesne conveyances, the defendant on
the 6th of January, 1885, became the owner of whatever interest Anderson had in the land by virtue of his above mentioned
entry. Thereafter the defendant filed his papers for a contest
as to the validity of the entry of Anderson, and although

GUARANTY SAVINGS BANK v., BLADOW.

453

Opinion of the -Court.

Anderson was duly notified of the proceedings, neither Fletcher
nor his assignee, the plaintiff in error, had any .notice of the
same. The plaintiff, therefore, contends that the whole proceeding in the General Land Office, including the hearing on
the contest before the register and receiver at Fargo, was, so
far as it was concerned, an absolute nullity, and the cancellation of Anderson's entry had in law no effect upon its claim
to use the 'certificate as evidence of Anderson's right to a
patent. In our opinion this contention is not well founded.
The favorable decision of the register and receiver of the
local land office upon the claim of Andersoii was, under the
statute, reviewable by the officers of the General Land Office,
and the officer of that department who directed the cancellation of the entry had by law jurisdiction to make that direction. Thecertificate was .primafaie evidence of the right
of the entryman to a patent, but the power rested with the
land department, upon proper notice, to set it aside and cancel
the entry, and thus take away from him thatprimajfacie evidence. United States v. Steenerson, 4 U. S. App. 332; American -Mortgage Company v. Efloer, 56 Fed. Rep. 67; S. 0. on
appeal, 29 U. S. App. 12. If the entry were cancelled arbitrarily, and without evidence or notice to him, it would not
conclude him, and he would, notwithstanding the decision,
have the right to show that his entry was valid, and that he
was entitled to a patent. And when the entry has been cancelled upon due notice to the entryman and after a hearing in
the case, so that the cancellation is conclusive against him
everywhere upon all questions of fact, it cannot be regarded
as.a mere nullity, when set up against the mortgagee of the
fraudulent entryman, even though such mortgagee had no
notice of the proceeding to cancel the certificate. The cancellation of the entry being valid as against Anderson, it left
him.-without the right to avail himself of it in any future claim
he might make for a patent, and it left his mortgagee also without the right to use that entry as primafacieevidence of Anderson's claim. The mortgagee, as was remarked by the court
below, had no vested right to use the certificate asPrimafacie
evidence of the right of the entryman to a patent, and after

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

its cancellation the plaintiff in error could not so use it, because
it had been validly extipguished and cancelled in a proceeding
against the mortgagor, although the mortgagee had no notice
of such proceeding.
This result follows by reason of the character of the entry,
and of the certificate given thereon. It does not transfer the
title to the land from the United States to the entryman, and
it simply furnishes primafacie evidence of an equitable claim
upon the Government for a patent, and the use of the certificate for that purpose is subject to be destroyed by the cancellation thereof under direction of the department. This is the
legal effect of such certificates, and all who deal in them or
found any right upon them must be held to do so with full
knowledge of the character of such papers.
But the cancellation, although conclusive as to the entryman, upon all questions of fact, if made after notice to him,
would not be conclusive upon the mortgagee, if made without
notice to such mortgagee and with no opportunity on its part
to be heard. That is, it would not prevent the mortgagee,
before the issuing of a patent, from taking proceedings in the
land department, and therein showing the validity of the
entry, or from proceeding before: a judicial tribunal, against
the patentee, if a patent had already issued, and therein showing the validity of the entry; such proof in each case would,
however, have to be made by evidence other than the certificate which had been cancelled. Had the mortgagee taken
either of these courses, it might have demanded in the one
case, upon proving the validity of the entry, tbht a patent
should be issued to the mortgagor or his grantees, leaving the
land subject to the lien of the mortgage, or if a patent had
been issued, the mortgagee might then have demanded relief
against the patentee upon proof of the validity of the entry,
in a proceeding in court to hold him as trustee. Although
the mortgagee might have taken either of the courses above
suggested, (and perhaps others,) it took neither of them. It
relied on the absolute nullity of the cancellation and proceeded to foreclose the mortgage as if the certificate still sub.
sisted and was evidence of the validity of the entry. This
was a conclusion not well founded.

GUARANTY SAVINGS BANK v. BLADOW.

455

Opinion of the Court.

If the plaintfff in error, even in this foreclosure suit, had
alleged that the entry had been cancelled and that a patent
for the land had been thereafter issued to the defendant, and
had asked that the patent so issued to him should 'be held by
him in trust and as security for the payment of the plaintiff's
mortgage on the ground that the entry had been improperly
cancelled as to it, and had proved on the trial that Anderson's
entry was legal, it may be that it would have been entitled to a
judgment decreeing the defendant a trustee of the title under
bis patent from the government and providing for the sale of
the land in order to pay the mortgage, or some other appropriate relief might have been granted. But this was not done,
and the case must be decided upon the record before us.
It is erroneous to state, however, that plaintiff in error has
admitted the entry was fraudulent. The facts are that in the
stateihent agreed upon by the parties it was admitted that in
the contest and upon the evidence therein submitted the register and receiver of the local land office decided as a conclusion of fact that Anderson's entry ,was fraudulent. This is
plainly no admission of the fact itself, and in no way is the
plaintiff in error thereby precluded from showing that the
entry was valid.
It is further contended that the defendant could not himself take the title of Andersbn and then contest before the
land department the validity of Anderson's entry, nor could
he, having succeeded in obtaining the cancellation of -such
entry, himself take proceedings under the preemption or
homestead act to obtain the same land. Having procured the
title of Anderson and then instituted the contest in the land
department, notice of which was given solely to Anderson, it
is contended that Anderson had no longer any interest in
defending his entry, and that the defendant occupied the position of being the only party to both sides of the contest, and
could not therefore be permitted, after securing the cancellation, to himself make an entry and obtain a patent for the
land; that by reason of these facts the cancellation was as to
the mortgagee an absolute nullity, and the mortgagee could
maintain its action to foreclose and sell the land under its

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

judgment of foreclosure the same as if no cancellation had
taken place.
But it must be remembered that Anderson was a grantor of
the land upon a warranty of title, and it is not clear he had
no interest in supporting his right of entry as valid and sufficient. Ink had himself conveyed with warranty. Whether
the defendant could avail himself of the warranty under the
facts regarding his own action in being a mover in the proceeding to cancel the entry, might be doubtful; but, at any
rate, there was a question which might cause Anderson to
endeavor to uphold his entry. It will be remembered, too,
that nearly three years prior to the conveyance to the defendant the Commissioner had held.Anderson's entry for cancellation on account of fraud. The defendant thus stood in danger
of a cancellation of that entry without notice to him, and, if
an entry were then mad4 by some one else, the defendant
would be without right to thereafter make an entry for himself. Could he not anticipate that danger, and himself commence the contest?
As a mere grantee by deed, which conveyed the interest of
Anderson, the, defendant did not take title under him, within
the meaning of the rule, which prevents one who takes title
under another from questioning that other's title; like a tenant taking under his landlord. A simple grantee in a deed
can set up another title .in a third party, and can himself
claim title under such party and can deny the title of his
grantor. He takes no title under the grantor, and: is at full
liberty to deny the title of the latter.
When the defendant, therefore, took his conveyance from
•Ink, it may be assumed that he took all the title which came
through Ink from Anderson, but he was under no obligation
to Anderson or to his mortgagees to admit the validity of
Anderson's entry, and had the right to deny its validity and
to make a contest before the land department. The only
objection to be urged against his proceeding is that he gave
no notice of the contest to the mortgagee. But it was not
the duty of the defendant to direct who should have notice in
such contest, for that was a matter for the officials of the

GUARANTY SAVINGS BANK v. BLADOW.

457

Opinion of the Court.

department, before whom the contest was inaugurated, to
decide. It was for them to determine who, if any one, should
be notified of the contest, and the duty was not imposed
upon the defendant. Of course, he could give, notice if he
chose. If he did not, the person who had any rights, if not
notified at all, either by him or by the department, could not
be concluded by the decision of the contest, and we hold now
that the mortgagee was not thereby concluded, and had the
right, if possible, to subsequently show that Anderson's entry
was valid. But the cancellation of the entry and certificate was
not rendered a nullity because the mortgagee had no notice. "
The character of the proceeding before the department
must be kept in mind. It is not like a proceeding in court.
It is administrative in its nature, and when the proceedings
are conducted in accordance with the provisions of law creating the department -and giving it jurisdiction, they may be
upheld, and the decisions of the officers supported when not
made arbitrarily and without evidence.
If the defendant in inaugurating his contest were guilty of
any fraud, by means of which notice to the mortgagee was
omitted, or Anderson induced not to defend his entry, and
the defendant was thus enabled to procure a decision *as ft
the fraudulent character of that entry, it might perhaps be
that in such case the mortagee would have the right to make
use of the original entry as still .prima facie evidence of
Anderson's right to a patent, the same as if the certificate
had not been cancelled. But there is no allegation of those
facts in the bill nor is there any proof in this record which
would sustain them if they had been alleged. The action is
not brought for that purpose nor upon any such theory.
Unless the facts that the defendant had taken this conveyance of Anderson's interest, and had subsequently commenced
the proceedings for a contest in regard to the entry of the
latter, of which the mortgagee had no notice, amount in law
to a fraud by the defendant upon such mortgagee, which
nullifies those proceedings and leaves the entry the same as
if it had not in fact been cancelled, then the cancellation
made after notice to Anderson was valid, and it deprived the

OCTOBER TER,

1899.

Opinion of the Court.

mortgagee of the use of the certificate as evidence of Anderson's right to the patent, while not in any way interfering
with the mortgagee's right to prove it by other evidence. In
our opinion the facts stated do not prove fraud, as a legal
conclusion, on the part of the defendant, who had the right
to take the .proceedings he did.
Plaintiff in error also contends that the motion made by it
on June 15, 1891, foir the issuing of a patent to it, as a bona
fide incumbrancer of the land, under the provisions of section
7 of the act of March 3,1891, entitled "An act for the repeal
of the timber culture law, and for other purposes," 26 Stat.
1095, 1098, should have been granted.
It will be seen that at the date of the passage ot this act
the entry of Anderson no longer existed, because -on November 14, 1887, it had been cancelled. The case of Parsons v.
Venzke, 164 U. S. 89, decides that the act of 1891 applies
only to entries existing at the time of its passage. The claim
of the plaintiff in error that the cancellation was wholly void
for all purposes cannot, as we have seen, be supported.
Our conclusion upon the whole case is that the cancellation
of the entry .was valid as regards Anderson, and that the
effect of such cancellation was to prevent the plaintiff in error
from using the entry as prima facie evidence of the right
of Anderson to a patent, and under the pleadings the plaintiff
in error had no right to a judgment of foreclosure. As the
case was not brought or tried on the theory that the defendant had only the legal title to the land under his patent, and
that such patent should be decreed to be held by him in trust
for the plaintiff to the extent of its mortgage because the
entry of Anderson was in fact valid and proper, the plaintiff in
error ought not to be obstructed in the pursuit of any remedy
which it may be advised it is proper to take, by the use of the
judgment herein as a conclusive adjudication against it.
We, therefore, think it propoer to modify the judgment
by striking out that, portion which cancels the mortgage,
and as modified, affrming the same without prejudice to
the right of the mortgagee to seek such other relief as it
may be advised, notwithstanding the adjudication of this
judgment, and it is so ordered.

