THE ADULA.
Syllabus.

tion is i variable quantity, dependent upon the number of
terms held by the Judge. Upon the theory of the petitioner,
if he had held but one term during the year previous to his
resignation, he would be entitled to but $300 in addition to
his regular salary of $5000. The fact that he was able to
hold the entire number of six terms for the twenty-four
years preceding his resignation is a tribute to his industry,
faithfulness and capacity, as well as to his good health, but
it does not affect the question in a legal point of view. This
compensation was not only for services actually performed,
but was subject to be diminished or taken away at the will
of Congress. It was something entirely distinct from the
salary paid to him as Judge of the District Court for the
Eastern District of New York, but was in fact, as was
held by the Court of Claims, extra pay for extra work performed-for particular as distinguished from continuous
services.
We are all of opinion that the judgment of that court was
Affrmed.
right, and it is therefore
MR. JUSTICE MoKENNA.

did not sit in this case.

THE ADULA.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT couRT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE SOUTHERN
1o. 167.

DISTRICT OF GEORGIA.

Arguea November 7, 1899. -Deelded :February 26,1900.'

A legal blockade may be established by a naval officer acting upon his own
discretion, or under direction of superiors, without govprnmental -notification.
In view of the operations being carried on for the purpose of destroying or
capturing the Spanish fleet at Santiago de Cuba, and the reduction of that
place, it was competent for the Admiral commandingthe squadron to establish a blockade there, and at Guantanamo, as an adjunct to such operations,
and such blockade was valid as against all vessels having notice thereof.
It appearing that Guantanamo was eighteen miles from the mouth of Guan.

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Statement of the Case.
tanamo Bay and was still occupied by the enemy, held, that although the
American troops occupied the mouth of the bay, the blockade was still
operative as to vessels bound to the city of Guantanamo.
The legal effect of a lawful and sufficient blockade is a closing of the port,
and an interdiction of the entrance of all vessels of whatever nationality
or business.
The sailing of a vessel with a premeditated intent to violate a blockade, is
ipsofacto a violation of the blockade, and renders her subject to capture
from the moment she leaves the port of departure.
If a master has actual notice of a blockade, he is not at liberty even to
approach the blockaded port for the purpose of making inquiries.
If a neutral vessel be chartered to an enemy, she becomes to a certain extent
and pro hac vice an enemy's vessel, and a notice to her charterer of the
existence of a blockade is a notice to the vessel.
It appearing in this case that both the charterer and the vessel had been
previously engaged in bringing away refugees from Cuba, and were
chargeable with notice of the military and naval operations against
that island, that such facts were of common knowledge at the port
from which she sailed, and that intercourse with Cuban ports was
dangerous; and it appearing from a preponderance of evidence that
both the charterer and master of the vessel had knowledge of the
blockade: held, that the vessel was properly condemned.
If an examination of the ship's papers and the testimony of the crew, taken
inpreparatoro,make a case for condemnation, an order for further proof
is only made where the interests of justice clearly require it: 'held, in this
case that there was no error in denying the motion of the claimant for
further proofs.

THIS was a libel in prize against the British steamship
Adula, then under charter to a Spanish subject, which was
seized June 29, 1898, by the United States cruiser Marblehead, for attempting to run the blockade established at Guantanamo Bay in the island of Cuba, and was subsequently sent
into the port of Savannah for adjudication.
The Adula, a vessel of 372 tons, was built at Belfast in
1889, for her owner, the Atlas Steamship Company, Limited,
a British corporation, and was registered in the name of its
managing diiector, Sir William Bowers Forwood. Prior to
the American-Spanish war she was engaged in general trade
between Kingston and other ports on the coast of Jamaica,
and from time to time had made voyages to Cuban ports.
After the breaking out of the war the steamer was chartered
by various persons in the intervals of its regular work, for
voyages to Cuba.

THE ADULA.

363

Statement of the Case.

In the meantime, however, under the command of Rear
Admiral Sampson, a blockade was established at Santiago,
where the Spanish fleet lay under the command of Admiral
Cervera. Upon June 8, a blockade of Guantanamo Bay was
also established by order of Admiral Sampson, the blockading
squadron being under the command of Commander McCalla.
Both of these blockades were maintained during the war.
On April 22, a blockade of the north coast of Cuba between
Cardenas and Bahia Honda and of Cienfuegos on the south
coast, was declared by the President. On*June 27, the President by proclamation gave notice that the Cuban blockade
had been extended to include all the ports on the southern
coast between Cape Frances and Cape Cruz. This included
the port of Manzanillo. On the 28th, this proclamation was
made known to the vessels off Guantanamo.
On June 27, the Adula, then at Kingston, was engaged in
taking on a cargo for shipment. On the 28th she discharged
this cargo, and the agent of the Atlas Company entered into
a charter party with one Solis, a Spanish subject formerly
resident in Manzanillo, of the material parts of which the following is a copy:
The Adula was put at the disposal of the charterer "for
the conveyance of passengers from Cuban ports hereinafter to
be named, to Kingston. The ports that the vessel is to go to
are Manzanillo, Santiago and Guantanamo; but it is distinctly
understood and agreed by the parties aforesaid that it shall
not be deemed a breach of this agreement should the steamer
be prevented from entering any of those ports from causes
beyond the control of the company, but that should she be
able to enter one or all'of them, she shall embark the passengers that the.charterer shall engage for her and proceed on
her voyage. If she is not permitted to enter either Manzanillo, Santiago or Guantanamo, the vessel is to return to Kingston, and the voyage shall be considered completed, and the
charter money hereinafter referred to earned without any
deductions.

.

.' .

The charterer is to provide a good and

efficient government pilot to conduct the ship safely into the
ports which have been named. Should she be permitted to

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Statement of the Case.

enter them the charterer guarantees that the proper and efficient clearances shall be obtained for each port, so that the ship
shall not be subjected to any fines for breach of regulations.
The company will give the option to the charterer
for another voyage similar to this on similar terms, providing
the charterer gives the company twenty-four hours' notice
after the arrival of the steamer at Kingston."
Accompanying this charter were certain instructions, printed
in the margin,' from the agent of the company to Captain
Yeates, the commander of the Adula. These were taken from
IATLAS

STEAMSHIP COMPANY,

JAmAICA AGENCY, June 28, 1898.

Captain Yeates, S. S. Adula.
DEAn Sm: I enclose herein a copy of the agreement under which your
vessel is proceeding on, and on board the ship will be the charterer, to whom
I now introduce you, Mr. Jos6 R. Solis, and I ask you to show him every
attention on the voyage.
You will see by a perusal of the agreement that you are on a voyage
wholly and solely for the conveyance of refugees from the ports named to
Kingston.
On your arrival at Guantanamo, to which port you will proceed direct,
you will find, no doubt, :American warships off the port. You will, when
signalled to, stop. immediately and communicate to the commanding officer
the voyage that you are on, and, in fact, you can show him these sailing
orders, and I do not think that the commanding officer will make any trouble
whatever to your continuing the voyage into the port.
You must be careful on your arrival there not to interfere or in any way
make any observation or sketches of anything that you may see or hear of,
but adhere strictly to the duties of your ship.
At Guantanamo it is likely there may be some difficulty in obtaining a
pilot, and if the commanding officer gives you permission to proceed it is
just possible that'he may be able to tell you where you can obtain the
services of a pilot to go in.
From Guantanamo you will proceed to off Santiago. Here you will meet
the other fleet, and carry the same instructions out with them as I have
mentioned to you in reference to Guantanamo. The charterer is telegraphing at once to Santiago for a pilot to come off to meet the ship, if permission
is granted, to pilot your ship into the port.
From Santiago you will proceed to Manzanillo, and from thence back to
Kingston. The charterer, Mr. Solis, may order you direct from Guantanamo
to Kingston or from Santiago to Kingston, and in such a case you will follow
out his orders, which he will give you in writing. He has the option of going
to the three ports, but it may be convenient for him to go to only one or even
two. The boat's crew that is mentioned in the appendix of this agreement

-

THE ADULA.
Counsel for Appellant.

tfie ship when she was captured. The Adula left Kingston late
in the afternoon of June 28. Before sailing, Solis asked from
the United States consul at Kingston a permit to enter the
ports of Guantanamo, Santiago andManzanillo. This the consul refused to give without special instructions from Washington. Just before sailing to Santiago, Solis cabled for a licensed
pilot to meet the Adula. On leaving Kingston she. took her
course around Morant Point at the easterly end of the island,
first toward Santiago, and then to Guantanamo, and about
4 r.m. of the following day was met before reaching the
harbor and brought to by the steamship Vixen; was directed
to proceed, entered the harbor of Guantanamo, and was seized
by the Marblehead, which, with other vessels of the fleet, was
lying inside the bay, and was sent to Savannah, where a libel
in prize was filed against her on July 21, 1898. The depositions inpreparatoriowere taken July 21, and her owner, the
Atlas Steamship Company, appeared as claimant and filed its
answer. The case was heard upon the proofs inprearatorio,
and a decree of condemnation entered July 28. (89 Fed. Rep.
351.) Before the decree, claimant moved for leave to take
further proofs. The court set the motion down for August 9,
giving claimant leave to serve such affidavits and other papers
as it might desire to read upon the motion, and directed the
entry of the decree to be -without prejudice to such motion.
The motion was finally denied, and the vessel released upon a
stipulation for her value.
From the decree of condemnation her owner and claimant
appealed to this court,

.

. Everett P. Wheeler for appellant.

you will provide, but it will be necessary for you to have the ensign in the
stern, so as to show your nationality.
You will not allow any provisions of any sort to leave your ship at any
of the ports or to do anything that is contrary to the laws of the country
or that may be interpreted as a breach of faith in being allowed to pass the
blockade and enter the ports, and I-must ask you not to permit any of your
crew to land at any of the ports, and only yourself, if necessary, to visit
the British consul.
Wishing you a pleasant voyage, I am, sir,
Yours faithfully,

(S'g'd)

W. PLnoE FOtRWOOD,

Gen. 4g', Jca.

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

257. James H. Hayden for the captors.
2feCammon was on his brief.

.r. JosepA

.

.Ar. Assistant Attorney General Boyt for the United States.
.31r. George A. King, Mr. William B. King and Mr.William
E. Harvey filed a brief for the captors.
MR. JUsTIoE BRowVN, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.

The rectitude of the decree of the District Court condemning the Adula as prize of war depends upon the existence of a
lawful and effective blockade at Guantanamo, the knowledg6
of such blockade by those in charge of the vessel, and their
intent in making the voyage from Kingston.
1. No blockade of Guantanamo was ever proclaimed by the
President. A proclamation had been issued June 27, establishing a blockade of all ports on the southern coast of Cuba
between Cape Frances on the west and Cape Cruz on the east,
but as both Santiago and Guantanamo are to the eastward of
Cape Cruz, they were not included. It appears, however, that
blockades of Santiago and Guantanamo were established in
the early part of June by order of Admiral Sampson, commander of the naval forces then investing the ports on the
southern coast of Cuba, and were maintained as actual and
effective blockades until after the capture of the Adula.
The legality of a simple or actual blockade as distinguished
from a public or Presidential blockade is noticed by writers
upon international law, and is said by Halleck to be "constituted merely by the fact of an investment, and without any
necessity of a public notification. As it arises solely from facts
it ceases when they terminate; its existence must, therefore,
in all cases, be established by clear and decisive evidence."
(Halleck Int.L. chap. 23, sec. 10.) A defacto blockade was also
recognized as legal by this court in the case of The Circassian,
2 Wall. 135, 150, in which the question arose as to the blockade of New Orleans during the civil war. In delivering the
opinion of the court, the Chief Justice observed: "There is

THE ADULA.
Opinion of the Court.

a distinction between simple and public blockades which supports this conclusion. A simple blockade may be established by
a naval officer, acting upon his own discretion or under direction of superiors, without governmental notification; while a
public blockade is not only established in fact, but is notified,
by the government directing it, to other governments. In
the case of a simple blockade, the captors are bound to prove
its existence at the time of capture; while in the case of a public blockade, the claimants are held to proof of discontinuance
in order to protect themselves from the penalties of attempted
violation." A like ruling was made by Sir William Scott in
the case of The Roa, 6 0. Rob. 364, which was the case of an
American ship and cargo, proceeded against for the breach of
a blockade at Montevideo, imposed by the British commander.
It was argued, apparently upon the authority of The Henr'ick
and .Aaria,1 0. Rob. 123, that the power of imposing a blockade is altogether an act of sovereignty which cannot be assumed
or exercised by a commander without special authority. But
says the learned judge: "The court then expressed its opinion
that this was a position not maintainable to that extent;
because a commander going out to a distant station may reasonably be supposed to carry with him such a portion of sovereign authority, delegated to him, as may be necessary to
provide for the exigencies of the service upon which he is
employed. On stations in Europe, where government is almost
at hand to superintend and direct the course of operations,
under which it may be expedient that.particular hostilities
should be carried on, it may be different. But in distant ports
of the world it cannot be disputed, I conceive, that a commander must be held to carry with him sufficient authority to
act, as well against the commerce of the enemy, as against
the enemy himself, for the immediate purpose of reduction."
See also The Johanna Xaria, Deane on Blockades, 86.
In view of the operations then being carried on for the purpose of destroying or capturing the Spanish fleet and reducing Santiago, we think it was competent for Admiral Sampson
to establish a blockade there and at Guantanamo as an adjunct to such operations. Indeed, it would seem to have been

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

a necessity that restrictions should be placed upon the power
of neutrals to carry supplies and intelligence to the enemy, as
they would be quite sure to do, if their ships were given free
ingress and egress from these harbors. While there could be
no objections to vessels carrying provisions to the starving
insurgents, if their destination could be made certain, the
probabilities were that such provisions carried to a beleaguered
port, would be immediately seized by the enemy and used for
the sustenance of its soldiers. The exigency was one which
rendered it entirely prudent for the commander of the fleet to
act, without awaiting instructions from Washington.
But it is contended that at the time of the capture, the port of
Guantanamo was completely in the possession and control of
the United States, and therefore that the blockade had been
terminated. It appears, however, that Guantanamo is eighteen miles from the mouth of Guantanamo Bay. Access to it
is obtained either by a small river emptying into the upper
bay, or by rail.from-Caimanera, a town on the west side of the
upper bay. It. seems that the Marblehead and the Yankee
were sent to Guantanamo on June 7; entered the harbor and
took possession of the lower bay for the use of American vessels; that the Panther and Yosemite were sent there on the 10th,
and on the 12th the torpedo boat Porter arrived from Guantanamo with news of a land battle, and from that time the harbor was occupied by naval vessels, and by a party of marines
who held the crest of a hill on the west side of the harbor
near its entrance, and the side of the hill facing the harbor.
But the town of Guantanamo, near the head of the bay, was
still held by the Spanish forces, as were several other positions
in the neighborhood. The campaign in the vicinity was in
active progress, and encounters between the United States and
Spanish troops were of frequent occurrence.
In view of these facts we are of opinion that, as the city of
Guantanamo was still held by the Spaniards, and as our troops
occupied only the mouth of the bay, the blockade was still
operative as against vessels bound for the city of Guantanamo.
IHere again the case of Tue Circassian,2 Wall. 135, is decisive.
The Circassian was captured May 4, 1862, for an attempted

THE ADULA.
Opinion of the Court.

violation of the blockade of New Orleans. The city, including
the ports below it on the Mississippi, was captured during the
last days of April, and military possession of the city taken
on May first. It was held that neither the capture of the forts
nor the military occupation of the city terminated the blockade,
upon the ground that it applied, not to the city alone, but controlled the port, which included the whole parish of New
Orleans, and lay on both sides of the Mississippi, and all the
ports on that river and on the lakes east of the city. The following language of the Chief Justice is equally pertinent to
this case: "Now, it may be well enough conceded that a continuous and complete possession of the city and the port, and
of the approaches from the Gulf, would make a blockade unnecessary, and would supersede it. But, at the time of the capture of the Circassian, there had been no such possession.
Only the city was occupied, not the port, much less the district
of 'country commercially dependent upon it, and blockaded by
its blockade. Even the city had been occupied only three days.
It was yet hostile; the rebel army was in the neighborhood;
the occupation, limited and recent, was subject to all the vicissitudes of war. Such an occupation could not at once, of itself,
supersede or suspend the blockade. It might ripen into a possession which would have that effect, and it did; but at the
time of the capture it operated only in aid and completion of
the naval investment." The occupation of the city terminates
a blockade because, and only because, it supersedes it, and if
a vessel be bound to a port or place beyond, which is still occupied by the enemy, the occupation of the mouth of the harbor
does not necessarily terminate the blockade as to such places.
Granting the existence of a lawful and sufficient blockade at
Guantanamo, its legal effect was a closing of the port, and an
interdiction of the entrance of all vessels of whatever nationality or business. 'It is well described by Sir William Scott
in The Vrouw Judith, 1 0. Rob. 126, 12S, "1as a sort of circumvallation round a place, by which all foreign connection and
correspondence is, as far as human force can effect it, to be_
entirely cut off. It is inteided to suspend the entire commerce of that place, and a*neutral is no more at liberty to
VOL. CLXXVI-

2

1

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

assist the traffic of exportation than of importation. The
utmost that can be allowed to a neutral vessel is, that having
already taken on board a cargo before the blockade begins,
she may be at liberty to retire with it. ' But it must be considered as a rule which this court means to apply, that a neutral
ship departing can only take away a cargo bonaflde purchased
and delivered, before the commencement of the blockade. If
she afterwards takes on board a cargo it is a fraudulent act
and a violation of the blockade." It is also said by Phillimore,
3 Int. Law, 383, that "the object of a blockade is to prevent
exports as well as imports, and to cut off all communication
of commerce with the blockaded place." The sailing of a vessel- with a premeditated intent to violate a blockade is ipso
facto a violation of the blockade, and renders the vessel subject to capture from the moment she leaves the port of departure. Yeaton v. Fry, 5 Oranch, 335; The Oircassian,2 Wall.135; Tha .Frederick -Molke, 1 0. Rob. 72; The Columbia,1
0. Rob. 130; Te .Veptunumg, 2 0. Rob. 110; Wheaton on Captures, 196. If a, master have actual notice of a blockade, he
is not at liberty even to approach the blockaded port for the
purpose of making inquiries of the blockading vessels, since
such liberty could not fail to lead to attempts to violate the
blockade under pretext of approaching the port for the purpose of making such inquiries. The Admiral, 3 Wall. 603;
Die Prize cases, 2 Black,. 635, 677; Duer on Ins. 661; The
Geshire, 3 Wall. 231;. The James Cook, Edwards, 261; The
Josephine, 3 Wall. 83; The Spec, 5 0. Rob. 76; The Btey,
1 0. Rob. 280; The Neptunus, 2 0. Rob. 110; The Little
William, 1 Acton, 141, 161; Sqperry v. Delaware Ins. Co., 2
Wash. 0. C. 243. If there be any distinction in this particular between a proclaimed blockade and an actual blockade by
a naval commander, it does not aid the Adula in view of the
admitted fact that she was informed by the Vixen that the
port was under the control of the United States military forces,
and that the war ships were visible before sbe entered the bay.
In this connection we are cited by counsel for the Adula to
a change in the law said to have been effected by the adhesion of this Government, at the beginning of the war, to the

THE ADULA.
Opinion, of the Court.

declaration of Paris abolishing privateering. This supposed
change apparently rests upon an extract from a French treatise upon international law by Pistoye and Duverdy, vol. 1, p.
375, in which it is said that by the modern law, in consequence
of the declaration of Paris' a vessel must be notified to depart
from the blockaded port before she can be captured, and that
the contrary rule was the result of the'doctrine of the Britiih
Orders in Council during the Napoleonic wars, which is now
given up by that country. It is. also said that "the old rule
was that it was a breach of blockade to enter upon a voyage to the blockaded port. This rule is now changed, because
neutrals are obliged only to respect' effective blockades. , It
may well be that a blockade of which official notice has been
given is not an effective blockade, orit may be that a blockade which has been established by a sufficient force may have
ceased to exist. Neutrals then have the right to begin a voyage to a blockaded port in order to see if the blockade still
continues. They are only guilty when, while the blockade
continues, they actually endeavor to break it."
We cannot, however, accept this opinion as overruling in
any particular the prior decisions of this court in the cases
above cited, to tbe effect that a departure for a blockaded port
with intent to violate the blockade renders the vessel liable to
seizure. When Congress has spoken upon this subject it will
be time enough for this court to act. We cannot change our
rulings to conform to the opinions of foreign writers as to what
they suppose to be the existing law. upon the subject.
We have not overlooked in this connection the provision
contained in Art. 18 of Jay's treaty of 1794, to the effect that
"whereas, it frequently happens that vessels sail for a port or
place belonging to an enemy, without knowing that the same
is either besieged, blockaded or invested, it is agreed, that every
vessel so circumstanced, may be turned away from such port
or place, but she shall not be detained nor her cargo, if not
contraband, confiscated, unless after notice she shall again
attempt to enter." Fiitzsimmons v. Nrewport-1s.Co., 4 Cranch,
185. Waivhig the question whether this clause of Jay's treaty
was abrogated by the war of 1812, and accepting it as a cor-

372

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

rect exposition of the law of nations, it applies only to vessels
which have sailed for a hostile port or place without knowing
that the-same is either besieged, blockaded or invested. The
whole case against the Adula depends upon the question
whther those in charge of her knew before she left Kingston
that Santiago and Guantanamo were blockaded. If they did,
the treaty does not apply. If they did not, they are entitled
to the benefit of this principle of international law. In the
case of the MarylandIns. Co. v. Woods, 6 Cranch, 29, in which
it was held that the vessel could not be placed in the situation of
one having notice of the blockade until she was warned off, the
decision was placed upon the express ground that orders had
been given by the British government, and communicated to
our government, "not to consider blockades as existing, unless
in respect to particular ports which may be actually invested,
and then not to capture vessels bound to such ports, unless they
shall have been previously warned not to enter them." This
order was treated by the court as a mitigation of the general
rule so far as respected blockades in the West Indies.
2. The questions concerning the notification of, and the
intent to, violate blockade depend largely upon the same testimony, and may be properly disposed of together. There is no
doubt that the Adula belonged to a British corporation, the
Atlas Steamship Company; was registered in the name of the
managing director of such corporation; flew the British flag,
and prior to the Spanish-American war was engaged in general trade between Kingston and other ports on the coast of
Jamaica, in connection with other steamers of the same line
from New York, and from time to time had made voyages to
Cuban ports. After the breaking out of the war the steamer
was chartered by various persons, in the intervals of its regular
'work for voyages to Cuba. On May 7, in pursuance of a verbal arrangement between the agent of the steamship company
and the American consul, the Adula was sent to Cienfuegos
in Cuba to bring away refugees. On arrival off Cienfuegos
she was boarded by officers of the U. S. S. Marblehead, who,
upon being shown the permit and the ship's papers, allowed
her to proceed, though the officers served the master with a

THE ADULA.
Opinion of the Court.

printed copy of the President's proclamation blockading Cienfuegos and several ports on the north side of Cuba, and made
a memorandum on the ship's log that they had done so. She
sailed from Cienfuegos May 10, with 350 passengers, mostly
women and children; was again boarded on leaving the port,
but was allowed to proceed.
On May 16, she was chartered by a Cuban refugee to proceed
to Santiago; arrived there the following day, and returned with
200 passengers. No war ships were off Santiago at that time.
She arrived at Kingston on the 19th, and landed her passengers.
On May 21, she was again chartered to go to Cienfuegos,
tlaving a permit from Washington, through the consul, to pass
the blockade. She reached the blockading fleet on the 23d,
was boarded by a boat from one of the vessels, and was again
given permission to proceed; was arrested upon suspicion by
the Spanish authorities in the port of Cienfuegos, but after a
detention of sixty hours was released. She sailed again on
May 26 directly for Kingston; saw no war ships in sight, and
arrived at Kingston on May 28.
After making two of her ordinary coasting voyages around
Jamaica, she was offered a further charter for Cienfuegos, but
could not obtain the permission of the American consul, who
told the master he had no authority to grant it. She left June
15, with a letter of instructions to the captain to proceed to
the fleet off Cienfuegos, then under a public blockade, to ask
permission from them to enter the port, and if granted, to go
in, and if not granted, to return to Jamaica. She arrived at
Cienfuegos June 17; landed some provisions which had been
shipped for her passengers, found no war ships there, and sailed
away on the 19th with only ninety-eight passengers. Sixty
miles S.S.E. from Cienfuegos she was stopped by the U. S. S.
Yankee, and an officer sent on board. The master showed the
boarding officer his instructions and the ship's papers, as well as
the passenger list ; was informed that Cienfuegos was blockaded, and that he must not enter it again. She arrived in
Kingston on June 21; proceeded around the island on her
usual coasting trip, and returned to Kingston on the 27th.
She was chartered for her last voyage June 28, by one Solis,

374

,OOTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

a Spanish subject, born near Havana, and living with his family
at Manzanillo. He had landed recently from Manzanillo with
a cargo of refugees. He had lived in Cuba, and at one time
had been the French consul at Manzanillo, though there was
no evidence that he had ever coiperated with the Spanish
authorities during the war, or rendered aid or comfort to the
Spanish forces. He had, however, a passport from the Spanish
consul to enter the cities to which he"was bound and take passengers away as refugees. He had previously been engaged in
shipping supplies to Cuban po"ts and returning with passengers for Jamaica. He also carried a special personal Spanish
passport granted the year before. Such being his political
character, he entered into a charter party" with the Atlas
Steamship Company, under which he was at liberty to go to
Manzanillo, Santiago and Guantanamo, and if not permitted to
enter these harbors, to return to Kingston. 'An option was
also given to the charterer for another similar voyage upon
like terms upon twenty-four hours' notice after arrival- at
Kingston. The charter was for the conveyance of passengers
from Cuban ports to Kingston at one hundred pounds per day.
Solis was entered upon the ship's articles as supercargo. She
was evidently chartered for his personal benefit, with power to
name the port which she was to visit, but with no right to
interfere with the navigation of the ship. Solis had made the
same sort of trip twice before with English schooners, and
expected upon this trip to make $19,000 net profit. He
appeared to have known nothing about the previous voyages
of the Adula, and had seen her for the first time only about
two months before. The vessel bore a passport .from the
Spanish consul at Kingston; a bill of health visid by the Spanish consul. With regard to his knowledge of the blockade at
Guantanamo he testified as follows:
"I knew that there was a condition of war existing between
America and Spain on the 21st. They told me on board the
Adula that the blockade of Guantanamo was published on the
27th, the day before. I had not heard it before I left Kingston. I did not know officially Guantanamo was blockaded.
On board the Adula I heard that on the 27th there was issued

THE ADULA.
Opinion of the Court.

au order from the President of the United States declaring
a blockade of the port of Guantanamo, but I did notknow it
until we arrived at Guantanamo. At Kingston I heard there
were some war ships at Guantanamo, and I told Captain Forwood that the first thing I would do would be to go to the
admiral and tell him my intentions. I did not think the
papers in Kingston published the blockade. I did not see it if
they did. The people generally did not talk about it. I read
something about IMcCalla's camp.' I understood Guantanamo was not blockaded by the United States. I heard that
marines had been landed at the entrance to Guantanamo, Caimenera - the bay is called Caimenera - and that the marines

had possession of the port, and that the ships were inside. I
cannot tell when I received the information that marines had
been landed there and taken possession of the point of Guantanamo dr Caimenera. Perhaps it was one or two days before.
I don't know what the others knew about a state of war existing. I understood. Ggantanamo was not declared officially
blockaded, although there were some vessels there. I got that
infdrmation from newspapers in Kingston, and from those
newspapers I got the information that marines had been landed
at the entrance to the bay on the east side; they call it 'East
Point.'"
It further appeared that the American consul warned Mir.
FoiFood, the agent of the ship at Kingston, of the existence of
the blockade in the following language, as stated by the agent
himself: "'Well, Forwood, I would not advise you to let the
ship go; they won't let her into Guantanamo, and they will be
watching for her.' I said to him, ' Oh, Dent, let me show you
the captain's instructions. lHe has got orders to go to the fleet
-there and ask their permission to take some refugees.' 'Well,'
he said, 'I don't know, but-they will be watching for her, and
I think that Senor Solis is a Spanish agent, carrying $300,000
in gold to buy over'the rebels in the American camp.' I told
him that I had inquired about the man, and that it was one of
the usual Kingston yarns." It also appears that Mr. Forwood
knewk that Mr. Solis was a Spaniard, and had been shipping
supplies to Cuban ports. After taking on board a large supply

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

of coal, the Adula left Kingston on June 28; rounded Morant
Point on the east end of the island of Jamaica; proceeded at
her usual speed toward Santiago, and sighted the blockading
fleet off that port about noon of the 29th. The captain gives
as his reason for going by the way of S&ntiago that he was not
acquainted with the coast line to the eastward of that port; had
no large scale chart, and therefore steered more to the westward than he should have done, because he knew the coast
about Santiago, and did not know that about Guantanamo ;
but it is quite as probable that it was the presence of a number of war vessels off Santiago which sent her to Guantanamo.
She was hailed by the Vixen within half a mile of the entrance
to the harbor of Guantanamo, brought to, and then directed
into the harbor, where several war vessels were lying, and was
shortly thereafter seized by order of Commander McCalla of
the Marblehead.
In his testimony before the prize commissioners, Captain
Yeates, master of the Adula, stated that he was stopped by the
Vixen about a half a mile from the entrance, to the bay and
permitted to proceed, and that it was not until after he had
auchored that he was acquainted with the blockade of the
harbor. One of the crew testified somewhat to the contrary
and swore that "about three days before I left Kingston I heard
that Guantanamo was blockaded; I heard it from people around
the streets; I did not see it; I heard it was in the papers; I
never heard any of the officers of the Adula or people oi board
talking about Guantanamo being blockaded, and I don't know
exactly whether the owner or master or officers of the ship
Adula knew that Guantanamo was blockaded. I knew about
it, but I don't know anything about them. I don't know
how I found it out, but I heard it on the streets -of Kingston."
He also swore "that at that time he went up to the mouth of
the harbor, and at that time, when we got to Guantanamo, we
found the war ships there blockading the harbor." A small
cruiser, the Vixen, 'ran up across our bow and the captain of
the cruiser asked us: I Didn't you sight the war ships down
at Santiago'?' and the captain said, ' Yes.' And the captain
stopped, and he said: ' Didn't you hear. that Guantanamo was

THE ADULA.
Opinion of the Court.

blockaded ?' and our captain said ' Yes.' Then he said, ' You
can proceed on. I heard about the blockade in Kingston, but
after leaving Kingston, until we met the cruiser, I never heard
anything more about it." Captain Yeates also testified that he
expected to be stopped when he approached Santiago. Air.
Solis, who had chartered the Adula for this voyage, testified
that he was told, while on board the Adula, that the blockade
of Guantanamo was published on the 27th, the day before, but
that he had not heard of it before he left Kingston, though he
had heard, while in Kingston, that there were some war ships
at Gauntanatxo. At the time the Adula was captured she was
searched for her ship's papers and other documents and letters.
Several letters were found, as well as copies of a newspaper published at Kingston, which spoke of the American military and
naval operations both at Santiago and Guantanamo.
Among these extracts from The Gleaner of July 14, 1898, is
the following, apparently telegraphed from London: "A dis.
patch boat off Santiago reports that the Americans now hold
thirty-five miles of the coast east of Santiago, including Guantanamo harbor, and that 20,000 Spanish troops at Santiago are
preparing to desperately resist the Americans, who have landed
3000 rifles, 300,000 rounds of ammunition, and large stores of
provisions;" and the following from the issue of June 25: "On
board the Adula, which arrived from Cienfuegos this week,
there was an individual officially appointed by the Captain General in Cuba to make arrangements in Jamaica for regularly
supplying the Spanish troops with provisions; in fact, to make
Jamaica a base for Spanish purposes."
In this connection it would seem from the report of the
Bureau of N~avigation that the consul at Kingston telegraphed
toWashington that the Under Secretary of the Captain General of Cuba and certain Spanish naval officers "1came aboard
the Adula with, it is supposed, $250,000 to purchase provisions
to be taken to Manzanillo for Cervera.

.

.

.

Extensive

preparations being made for shipping provisions to Cuba."
In a letter from Captain Yeates to his parents, under date
of July 13, and apparently written while the Adula w~s at
Savannah, he says: "And now to tell you.dear ones how it is

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

or was that we got into this pickle, which has not come as any
surprise, as I have anticipated this for some time; it is I did
not think I should be in command when it happened, but it
ias my luck to be, I suppose." Speaking of the capture, he
says: "They turned the ship-upside down; took my papers;
measured the coals, and took stock generally. As far as the
ship is concerned she was on perfectly legitimate business, fetching refugees.. Whether Mr. Solis chartered the ship for that
purpose alone, of course, has to be proved, and we are now on
our way to Savannah for that purpose with a prize crew and
Lieutenant Anderson in charge." In a postscript dated at
Savannah, July i5,he says: "We have not yet reached the
town proper, for we are going through the same performance
as we did at Tampa, but I w.a not caught this time, for I
managed to keep my things out of the oven."
As tending to show-the good faith of this expedition, and
more particularly the owners of the Adula, much reliance is
placed upon the letter of Mr. Forwood to Captain Yeates of
June 28, the day upon which the Adula left Kingston, in which
he instructs him, in case he finds American war ships off Guantanamo, to stop immediately upon being signalled, and communicat6 to the 'commanding officer the object of the voyage, and
to be careful upon his arrival "not to interfere, or in any way
make any observations or sketches of anything you may see
or hearof, but adhere strictly to the duties of your ship," and
.observe the same precautions off Santiago. In this letter
he also instructs him not to allow any provisions to leave the
ship, or to do anything which could be interpreted as a breach
of faith in being allowed to pass the blockade and enter the
ports. While this letter doubtless tends to show good faith on
the part of Mr. Forwood, still it was written with full information from Mr. Soils that. the consul had refused to give him
a passport, without permission from 1he American authorities
in Washington. That Mr. Forwood recognized the necessity
of an authority from Washington in order to pass the blockade
is shown by his letter to Captain Walker of May 21, 1898, in
reference to one of the voyages to Cienfuegos, in which he
says: "In giving this letter to the blockade, be sure and ask

THE ADULA.

379.

Opinion of the Court.

the officer if he'would allow the ship to pass another voyage
without cabling to Washington."
From all the testimony in the case it appears very clear:
That Guantanamo was actually and effectively blockaded by
orders of Admiral Sampson from June 7 until after the capture
of the Adula;
That the Adula was chartered to a Spanish subject for a
voyage to Guantanamo, Santiago or Manzanillo, for the purpose
of bringing away refugees, and that. suph voyage wag primarily, at least, a commercial one for the personal profit of the
charterer. During such charter she was to a certain extent,
.pro hac vice, a Spanish vessel, and a notice to Solis of the
existence of the blockade was a notice to the vessel. The
Ranger, 6 0. Rob. 126; The Yonge .Emilia,3 0. Rob. 52;- The
NZap4oleon, Blatch. Prize'Cases, 296. The fact of her sailing
under a Spanish passport - in fact, an enemy's license - is
not devoid of significance. Indeed, we have in several cases
regarded this as sufficient ground for condemnation. The
India,8Cranch,181; The Aurora,8 Cranch, 203; The Hiram,
1 Wheat. 440; The Ariadne, 2 Wheat. 143. This passport gave
the Adula authority to enter the Cuban ports and take away
refugees, and it is a circumstance worthy of notice that it could
not be found when the vessel was captured. Solis acknowledged its existence, but made no effort to account for its loss;
Both Solis himself and the Adula had been previously
engaged in similar enterprises to the coast of Cuba, and were
chargeable with notice, not only of war between the United
States and" Spain, but with the fact of military and naval
operations upon the southern coast of Cuba;
The fact of such War, that the object of it was the expulsion of the Spanish forces from Cuba, and that military and
naval operations were being carried on by us with that object
in view, must have been matters of common knowledge in
Kingston, as well as the fact that the commerce with the
southern ports 6f Cuba was likely to be interrupted, and that
all intercourse with such ports would become dangerous in
consequence of such war;
While the mission of the Adula was not an unfriendly one

OCTOBER TERMA,

1899.

Opinion of the Court.

to this Government, she was not a cartel ship, privileged from.
capture as such, but one employed in a commercial enterprise
for the personal profit of the charterer, and only secondarily,
if at all, for the purpose of humanity. Her enterprise was an
unlawful one, in case a blockade existed, and both Solis and
the master of the Adula were cognizant of this fact. The
direction of the commanding officer of the Vixen, which overhauled the Adula off Guantanamo, to enter the harbor, cannot
be construed as a permission to violate the blockade, as such
permission would not be within the scope of his authority.
The Hope, 1 Dod. 226; The Amado, Newb. 400; The Joseph,
8 Or. 451; The Benito Fstenger,post 568.
That upon arrival off Santiago the blockading fleet was
plainly visible, and we think there is a preponderance of evidence to the effect that both Solis and the master of the Adula
knew of the actual blockade, that it was generally known in
Kingston before she sailed, and that the Adula was chargeable
with a breach of it, notwithstanding the letter of instructions
from Mlr. Forwood to Captain Yeates. As the blockade had
been in existence since June 7, it is scarcely'possible that, in
the three weeks that elapsed before the Adula sailed, it should
not have been known in Kingston, which was only a day's trip
from the southern coast of Cuba, and with which it appears to
have been in frequent communication. This probability is confirmed by the direct testimony of the sailor Mtorris, that it was
matter of common talk in Kingston. The testimony of Solis,
that he did not know "officially" that Guantanamo was blockaded, by which we are to understand that it had not been
officially. proclaimed, is perfectly consistent with a personal
knowledge of the actual fact. His statement seems to be little more than a convenient evasion. Upon the principle already
stated his knowledge was the knowledge of the ship.
We think the facts herein stated outweigh the general statement of the officers that they had not heard of the blockade.
3. There was no error in denying the motion of the claimant to take further proofs. It appears from the 6pinion of the
court that "the hearing upon the proceedings for condemnation was upon the evidence -afforded by the examination of the

THE ADULA.
Opinion of the Court.

captured crew taken upon standing interrogatories, the ship's
papers, and other evidence of a documentary character found
upon the ship by the captors. This was done in conformity to
the established rule in prize causes."
The motion to take further proof was made upon the affidavit of Robert Gemmell, the New York agent of the company, the statement of W. P. Forwood, the Kingston agent,
annexed thereto, as well as his own affidavit and exhibits, and
upon the counter testimony of Anderson, Ellenberg and Gill
taken de bene esse. Upon the hearing of this motion the court
considered the allegations of Forwood, attached to Gemmell's
affidavit, as if Forwood had testified upon depositions regularly
taken, giving due weight to the same in connection with other
evidence in .the case; and was of opinion that the evidence as
it stood was not susceptible of any satisfactory explanation;
and comparing the proof proposed to be brought forward with
that already in the case, dame to the conclusion that the legal
effect of the facts before the court could not be varied by the
explanation offered. The motion was denied. In considering
this case we have also given effect to these affidavits, and have
come to the conclusion that, if they are to be taken as true, and
the further proofs, if taken, would support them, they would
not change our opinion with respect to the affirmance of the
decree.
If an examination of the ship's papers and of the crew, taken
inpreparatorio,upon which the cause is first heard in the District Court, make a case for condemnation, the order for further proof is, as stated in The Gray Jacket, 5 Wall. 342, 368,
always made with extreme caution, and only where the interests of justice clearly require it. If the ship's papers and the
testimony of the crew do not justify an acquittal, it is improbable that a defence would be established by further proof; and
as the interest of all parties require that prize causes be quickly
disposed of, it is only where the testimony in preparatorio
makes a case of grave doubt, that the court orders the taling
of further proofs. Thte Pizarro,2 Wheat. 227; T]ie Amiable
Isabella, 6 Wheat. 1, 77; Benedict's Adm'y, sec. 512 a; Story
on Prize Courts, 17.

OCTOBER TERM, 1899."
Opinion of the Court.

It was said by Sir William Scott in The Sarah,3 C. Rob.
330, that "it has seldom been done except in cases where there
has appeared something in the original evidence, which lays a
suggestion for prosecuting the inquiry farther. In such case
the court has allowed it; but when the matter is foreign, and
not connected with the original evidence of the cause, it must
be 'indervery peculiar circumstances indeed that the court will
be induced to accede to such an application; because, if remote
suggestions were allowed, the practice of the court would be
led away from the simplicity of prize proceedings, and there
would be no end to the accumulation of proof that would be
introduced in order to support arbitrary suggestions."'
These remarks are specially pertinent to the offer of further
proof that, while Solis owed allegiance to the Queen of Spain,
yet, that he left Cuba soon after the war broke out, took no
part in the hostilities, but on the contrary had done all in hispower while he remained in Cuba to assist citizens of the
United States residing there; had sided 'with the natives of
Cuba, and was desirous that a government should be established in the island under the auspices of the United States. As
was observed in the very satisfactory opinion of the District
Judge in this case, this evidence was altogether irrelevant to
the case of the Adula, and was, to a certain extent, a contradiction of his testimony before the prize commissioners that he
was a loyal subject of Spain, bore a Spanish passport, and carried a bill of health vis6d by the Spanish consul at Kingston.
It would throw the whole practice in prize cases into confusion
if the testimony, taken in preparatorio,when the facts are fresh
in the minds of the witnesses, were subject to be contradicted
by the same witnesses after its weak points had been developed.
It was said by Mr. Justice Story in Te Pizarro,2 Wheat.
227: "Nor should the captured crew have been permitted to be
reexamined in court. T.hey are bound to declare the whole
truth upon the first examination; and if they fraudulently
suppress any material falts, they ought not to be indulged with
an opportunity to disclose what they please, or to give color to
their former statements pfter counsel has been taken, and they
know the pressure of the cause. Public policy and justice

THE ADUILA.
Dissenting Opinion: Shiras, Gray, White, Peckham, JJ.

equally point out the necessity of an inflexible adherence to
this rule."
Upon the whole,- we think the decrea of the District Court
was correct, and it is therefore
Affirmed.
X.R. JUSTIcE SHRAS, with whom concurred MR. JUSTIE
GRAY, MR. JUSTIoE WrnTE and MR. JUSTICE PcxH _ , dis-

senting.
I cannot concur in the judgment of the court in this case,
and shall state my views briefly, without entering at length
-upon a discussion in support of them.
By a joint resolution of the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States, approved April 20, 1898, it was
declared "That the people of the Island of Cuba are, and of
right ought to be, free- and independent." "That it is the
duty of the United States to demand, and the Government of
the United States does hereby demand, that the Government
of Spain at once relinquish its authority and government in
the Island of Cuba, and withdiaw its land and naval forces
from Cuba and. Cuban waters." "That the President of the
United States be, and he hereby is, directed and empowered
to use the entire land and naval forces of the United States,
and to call into the actual service of the United States the
*militia of the several States to such extent as may be necessary to carry these resolutions into effect." "That the United
States hereby disclaims any disposition or intention to exercise
sovereignty, jurisdiction or control over said island except for
the pacification thereof, and asserts its determination, when
that is accomplished, to leave the gov.ernment and control of
the island to its people." 30 Stat. 738.
By an act approved April 25, 1898, Congress declared "That
war-be, and the same is hereby, declared to exist, and that war
has existed since the twenty-first day of April, A.D. 1898, including said day, between the United"States of America and the
Kingdom of Spain." 30 Stat. 364, c. 189.
On April 22, a blockade of the north coast of Cuba between
Cardenas and Bahia Honda, and of Cienfuegos on the south

OCTOBER TERM; 1899.
Dissenting Opinion: Shiras, Gray, White, Peckham, JJ.

coast, was declared by the President, and on June 27 the
President by proclamation gave notice that the Cuban blockade had been extended to include all the ports on the southern
coast between Cape Frances and Cape Cruz. Neither of these
proclamations included the port of Guantanamo, nor was any
blockade of that port ever proclaimed by the President.
The Adula was a British vessel, and on June 28 she left the
British port of Kingston, in the Island of Jamaica, bound,
according to the instructions from the agent of the Atlas
Steamship Company, the owners, to Captain Yeates, the
master of the vessel, directly to the port of Guantanamo.
Among the instructions, found on the vessel when she was
captured, were the following:
"I enclose herein a copy of the agreement under which
your vessel is proceeding on, and on board the ship will be the
charterer, to whom I now introduce you, Mr. Jos6 R. Solis,
and I will ask you to show him every attention on the voyage.
"You will see by a perusal of the agreement that you are
on a voyage wholly and solely for the conveyance of refugees
from the ports named to Kingston.
"On your arrival at Guantanamo, to which port you will
proceed direct, you will find, no doubt, American war ships off
the port. You will, when signalled to, stop immediately and
communicate to the commanding officer the voyage that you
are on, and in fact you can show him these sailing orders, and
I do not think that the commanding officer will make any
trouble whatever to your continuing the voyage into the port.
You must be careful on your arrival there not to interfere or
in any way make any observations or sketches of anything
you may see or hear of, but adhere strictly to the duties of
your ship. At Guantanamo it is likely there may be some
difficulty in obtaining a pilot, and if the commanding officer
gives'you permission to proceed it is just possible that he may
be able to tell you where you can obtain the services of a pilot
to go in."
On the afternoon of the 29th June the Adula approached
the harbor of Guantanamo, and there met the United States
war vessel Vixen. It was testified by Captain Yeates before

THE A-DULA.
Dissenting Opinion: Shires, Gray, White, Peckham, JJ.

the prize commission as follows: "We passed one vessel. I
think it was the Vixen. He fired a gun. I stopped immediately, and he told me to proceed. He did not stop his engines
at all; just steamed right on by. Captain Forwood told me
I should see vessels of war around there. When the Vixen
hailed me we were about half a mile from the entrance of the
bay, and about four miles from where we anchored." This
evidence was not contradicted, and, in respect to the permission to proceed, was corroborated by one of the crew of the
Adula.
After the vessel had entered and anchored in the bay she
was seized by the Marblehead, a war ship of the United States,
which was lying inside the bay, and was sent to Savannah,
where, on July 28, a decree of condemnation was entered
against her. No goods of a contraband character were on the
vessel.
Upon these admitted facts, there was no duly constituted
blockade of Guantanamo existing when the Adula sailed for
and entered that port.
On the contrary, by the successive Presidential proclamations of blockade, that port was left free and open for the
entrance of neutral vessels. Indeed, it may be fairly said that,
in the special circumstances of our war with Spain, those proclamations were intended to permit, if not to invite, the continuance of commerce in goods, not contraband, in all the Cuban
ports not included within the limits defined. The United
States were not carrying on warlike operations against the
people of Cuba. They were declared, by the joint resolution
of the two houses of Congress, to be free and independent, and
the Government of Spain was called upon to relinquish its government, and to withdraw its land and naval forces from Cuba
and Cuban waters. It was notorious that great misery and
destitution had been caused among the inhabitants by the military operations of the Spanish army in a long and fruitless
effort to subdue the revolutionary movement. Indeed, that
condition of the people of Cuba was one of the principal inducements to the United States to intervene on their behalf.
It may be well here to refer to the message of the President
VOL.

=3m-25

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Dissenting Opinion: Shiras, Gray, White, Peckham, J.

to Congress, of the date of April 11, 1898, wherein will be found
the following statements:
"Our people have beheld a once prosperous community
reduced to comparative want, its lucrative commerce virtually
paralyzed, its fields laid waste, its mills in ruins, and its peopleperishing by tens of thousands from hunger and destitution.
.
The policy of devastation and concentration, inaugurated by the Captain General's bando of October 21, 1896, in
the province of Pinar del Rio, was thence extended to embrace
all of the island to which the power 6f the Spanish arms was
able to reach by occupation or by military operations. The
peasantry, including all dwelling in the open agricultural interior, were driven into the garrison towns or isolated places held
by the troops."
And, after reciting the fact that he had made an appeal to
the American people to furnish succor to the starving sufferers
in Cuba, the President concluded:
"In view of these facts and of these considerations I ask the
Congress to authorize and empower the President to take measures to secure a full and final termination of hostilities between
the Government of Spain and the people of Cuba, and to
secure in the island the establishment of a stable government,
capable of maintaining order and observing its international
obligations, insuring peace and tranquillity and the security
of its citizens as well as of our own, and to use the military
and naval forces of the United States as may be necessary for
these purposes. And in the interest of humanity and to aid
in preserving the lives of the starving people of the island, I
recommend that the distribution of food and supplies be continued, and that an appropriation be made out of the public
treasury to supplement the charity of our citizens."
The policy of our Government, in respect to the rights of
neutrals, was further made to appear in the Pkesident's proclamation of April 26, 1898, declaring our adhesion to the rules
of the Declaration of Paris, whereby important modifications,
'in recognition of the rights of neutrals and of principles of
humanity, were introduced into international law.
What was more natural, then, than that our Government

THE ADULA.

387

Dissenting Opinion: Shiras, Gray, White, Peckham, JJI.

would approve all efforts to furnish food to those famishing
people, and to aid them in escaping from the seat of war? It
appears that the Adula, after the declaration of war, had made
several voyages to Cuban ports, with the express permission of
the American consul at Kingston; bad brought away several
hundred refugees, chiefly women and children, and was engaged
in a similar errand when seized.
It is, however, claimed that an actual blockade of Guantanamo had been established by Admiral Sampson early in
June, which was in existence at the time the Adula entered
that port, and that her mastee had knowledge of such blockade before leaving Kingston.
To-declare a blockade effective against neutrals not carrying
contraband goods is said by all the authorities to be one of the
highest acts of sovereignty, not to be resorted to except for
reasons based on well-known principles of modern warfare,
and to be proclaimed so as to give full notice to friendly
and neutral, nations.
As was said by this court, through Mr. Justice Grier, in
Prize cases, 2 Black, 635, 665: "Neutrals have a right to
challenge the existence of a blockade d facdo, and also the
authority of the party exercising the right to institute it.
They have a right to enter the ports of a friendly nation
for the purposes of trade and commerce, but are bound to
recognize the rights of a belligerent, engaged in actual war,
to use this method of coercion, for the 'purpose of subduing
the enemy.

.

.

.

That the President, as the executive

.chief of the Government and commander-in-chief of the
Army and Navy, was the proper person to make such notification, has not been and cannot be disputed."
So it was held by Sir William Scott, in The Henrik7 and
.Mar.ia,1 Rob. 123, 125,. that "notification of a blockade is an
act of high sovereignty, and not to be extended by those employed to carry it into execution. ., . A declaration of
blockade is a high act of sovereignty; and a commander of
a Kings ship is not to extend it."
"Where a blockade has been declared by the Government,
the commander of the blockading squadron has no discretion-

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Dissenting Opinion: Shiras, uray, White, Peckham, MY.

ary power to extend its limits. If he prohibits neutral ships
from entering ports not embraced in the terms of the blockade
he was appointed to enforce, the warning is illegal, and no
penalty is incurred by the neutral master by whom it is disregarded." 1 Duer Ins. 64:7, sec. 23.
"A declaration of blockade is a high act of sovereignty,
and it is usually made directly by the government to which
the blockading squadron belongs. A blockade is however in
some cases declared by an officer of a belligerent power, and
when so declared it will affect the subjects of neutral nations
as far as it is authorized, or adopted and ratified, by his government. The implied authoiity in this respect vested in a
naval commander is much greater at a distance from his government than when he is near it. To affect neutral nations,
it must be laid by competent authority, and they are affected
only in the extent to which it is so laid." 1 Phillips on
Insurance, 466.
As it does not appear that the Government delegated any
authority to Admiral Sampson to declare a blockade of the
port of Guantanamo, but declared a limited and specified
blockade of portions of the Cuban coast by Presidential proclamation, leaving the port in question free and open to neutral
commerce, in goods not contraband, it follows that for Admiral Sampson to declare a blockade of such port would have
been, on his part, an effort to defeat the policy of his Government, which, as we have seen, was shown, by the proclamations and messages of the President, to have intended to leave
open a large portion of the- Cuban coast, and ports included
therein, to neutral and friendly commerce, designed to furnish
food to our starving allies, and to enable their women and
children to flee from the oppression under which they were
suffering.
Moreover, it does not appear that Admiral Sampson claimed
or exercised any right to declare a blockade of Guantanamo.
Doubtless he occupied that bay and its adjacent waters with
'his war vessels, and that gave him a right to visit and search
even neutral vessels, to discover whether they carried contra.
band goods. But this did not warrant any vessel of hh

THE ADULA.
Dissenttng Opinion: Shiras, Gray, White, Peckham, J.

squadron to seize a neutral ship,not carrying contraband
goods, when entering a port in effect left free by the proclamation of the President.
But, even if it were conceded that the American commander
could establish, without proclamation, a valid actual blockade
of the port in question, it would still be true, in my opinion,
that the seizure of the Adula was contrary to well-established
principles of international law.
When a blockade of a given coast or port of one belligerent
has been declared by the sovereign power of another, all vessels of neutral or friendly nations are thereby supposed to be
visited with notice of such blockade, and it has been held that
if they sailed for the blockaded port, with the intent to enter
it, and approach it for that purpose, they are subject to seizure
and condemnation, and that they cannot even approach the
blockaded port for the purpose of making inquiries of the
blockading vessels, since such liberty might lead to attempts
to violate the blockade under pretext of approaching for the
purpose of making such inquiries. The Cheshire, 3 Wall. 231.
But,in the case of a blockade established by a naval officer,
acting upon his own discretion, without governmental proclamation, neutrals are not visited with implied notice of the
existence of such a blockade, and they may rightfully sail
for such a blockaded port, and if, when approaching it, armed
vessels are seen to be in its immediate neighborhood, they
may apply to such vessels for information and for leave to
enter, without subjecting themselves to capture. The duty of
the blockading squadron,-if objection exists to permitting
neutral vessels to enter, is to warn them off. If, after such
warning, the neutral vessels, disregarding it, attempt to enter,
they are liable to seizure.
As was said in the case of Tite Cirassian, 2 Wall. 135, 150,
which was a case where the blockade had been prodlaimed by
the American government: "There is a distinction between
simple and public blockades which supports this conclusion.
A simple blockade may be established by a naval officer, acting upon his own discretion, or under direction of superiors,
without governmental notification; while a public blockade is

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Dissenting Opinion: Shiras, Gray, White, Peckham,

33.

not only established in fact, but is notified, by the government directing it, to other governments. In the case of a
simple blockade the captors, are bound to prove its existence
at the time of capture; while, in the case of a public blockade,
the claimants are held to proof of discontinuance in order to
protect themselves from the penalties of attempted violation.
The blockade of the rebel ports was and is of the latter character. It was legally established and 'regularly notified by
the American government to the neutral governments. Of
such a blockade, it was well observed by Sir William Scott:
'It must be conceived to exist till the revocation of it is actually notified.' The blockade of the rebel ports, therefore,'
must be presumed to have continued until notification of discontinuance."
In Fibsimmons v. NYewport ns. Co., 4 Cranch, 185, 198, it
was held that the fact of clearing out for a blockaded port
is, in itself, innocent, unless accompanied by other incidents;
that the offence consists in persisting in attempting to enter
the interdicted port after having been warned; and it was
said by Chief Justice Marshall:
"The right to treat the vessel as an enemy is declared by
Vattel to be founded on the attempt to enter, and certainly
this attempt must be made by a person knowing the fact.
But this subject has been precisely regulated by the treaty
between the United States and Great Britain, which was in
force when this condemnation took place. That treaty contains the following clause:
"' And whereas it frequently happens that vessels sail for a
port or place belonging to an enemy, without knowing that
the same is either besieged, blockaded or invested, it is agreed
that every vessel so circumstanced may be turned away from
such port or place, but she shall not be detained, nor her
cargo, if not contraband, be confiscated, unless, after notice,
she shall again attempt to enter; but she shall be permitted
to go to any other port or place she may think proper.'
"This treaty is conceived to be a correct exposition of the
law of nations; certainly it is admitted by the parties to it, as
between themselves, to be a correct exposition of that law, or

THE ADULA.
Dissenting Opinion: Shiras, Gray, White, Peckham, JJ.

to constitute a rule in the place of it. Neither the law of
nations nor the treaty admits of the condemnation of the neutral vessel for the intention to enter a blockaded port, unconnected with any fact." The distinction between a blockade declared by a government and a blockade de facto is thus stated by Chancellor
Kent:
"A notice to a foreign government is a notice to all the
individuals of that nation; and they are not permitted to aver
ignorance of it, because it is the duty of the neutral government to communicate the notice to their people.
"In the case of a blockade without regular notice, notice in
fact is generally requisite; and there is this difference between
a blockade regularly notified, and one without. such notice,
that, in the former case, the*act of s.ailing for the blockaded
port, with the intent to evade it, or to enter it contingently,
amounts, from the very commencement of the voyage, to a
breach of the blockade; for the port is to be considered as
closed up, until the blockade be formally revoked, or actually
raised; whereas', in the latter case of a blockade de facto, the
ignorance of the .party as to its continuance may be recdeived
as an excuse for sailing to the blockaded place, on a doubtful
and provisional destination."
It should be noted that the American bases cited, on behalf
of the captors, to the effect that sailing from a neutral port to
a blockaded port is, in itself, a violation of the blockade, were
cases in which there had been a Presidential proclamation, of
which neutral vessels were bound to take notice. fVie (Nagsian, 2 Wall. 135; The Admiral, 3 Wall. 603.
It should further be considered that in the President's
proclamation of April 22, 1898, establishing the extent of the
blockade, there was contained the following provision:
"Any neutral vessel approaching any. of said ports, or
attempting to leave the same, without notice or knowledge
of the establishment of such blockade, will be duly warned
by the commander of the blockading forces; who will indorse
on her register the fact, and the date, of such warning where
such instrument was made; and if the same vessel shall again

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Dissenting Opinion: Shiras, Gray, White, Peckham, JJ.

attempt to enter any blockaded port she will be captured and
sent to the nearest convenient port for such proceedings against
her and her cargo as prize, as may be deemed advisable." 30
Stai. 1n69.
Of-course, if the blockade of Guantanamo was illegal, as
inconsistent with the terms and intent of the President's
proclamations, no consideration of the evidence regarding
the movements of the vessel is called for, and it is a clear
case for restitution. In such a case, no importance can be
ascribed to any supposed notice to the owners of the ship.
The Admiral's want of power to override the policy and
intentions of the Government cannot be supplied by imputing to the vessel a knowledge of an actual occupation of the
port by armed vessels of the United States. Such occupation
would be no reason why neutral ships, not carrying contraband cargo, might not fearlessly approach and enter the
harbor.
If, however, the other view be taken, namely, that it was
competent for the Admiral, of his own motion, to establish a
blockade, still, as we have seen, neutral vessels were entitled,
on principle and authority, to a warning by the blockading
squadron, and could only become lawful prize by disregarding the warning, and renewing the attempt to enter. Mere
knowledge by the neutrl vessel that vessels of war occupied
the harbor and adjacent waters would not constitute notice
or knowledge of a blockade; she would be entitled to 'an
actual warning. .Mazryand n9. Co. v. Woods, 6 Cranch, 29.
The Adula received no such warning. When she approached
the harbor she was hailed by a war vessel, the Vixen, and was
told to proceed. If, by telling the Adula to proceed, the. commander of the Vixen is to be understood as taking charge of
the Adula as engaged in an attempt to break the blockade,
there was, of course, no warning. If, what seems the natural
import of the language, the commander of the Vixen gave the
neutral vessel permission to enter the harbor, not only was
there no warining, but such permission protected her from
the subsequent seizure after she had entered and anchored in
the harbor.

THE ADULA.
Dissenting Opinion: Shiras, Gray, White, Peckham, JJ.

But it is contended that the Adula had actual knowledge
of the existence of the blockade when she sailed from Kingston, and that such knowledge deprived her of the right to a
warning.
As already said, if the blockade had been regularly proclaimed by the United States government, the Adula, as a
neutral vessel, if aware of the blockade, could not lawfully
have sailed from Kingston and approached Guantanamo with
an intention to enter it unless intercepted. It is well settled
that, in the case of a proclaimed blockade, the neutral vessel
may nbot, with a knowledge of the proclamation, approach the
prohibited port, even for the purpose of inquiring from the
vessels in occupation whether the blockade was still in existence. The reason given for such a decision is that it would
seriously affect the efficiency of the blockade if ships were permitted to approach the blockaded port on pretext of inquiry, and
thus be enabled to slip in if there was a momentary absence of
a blockading vessel.
But different principles prevail in the case of a blockade
de ,facto. Then, neutral vessels may, even with knowledge
that such a blockade had been in existence, sail for such port
with a clear right to inquire whether the blockade was still in
force, and to enter the port if it is found not to be actually
blockaded.
The reason for the distinction, given in the
authorities, is that a proclaimed blockade is deemed to continue until the blockade is raised by a declaration of the
power that established it. But a simple or defacto blockade
lasts only so long as the blockading squadron chooses to maintain it by a present and actual force. The reasons for constituting such a blockade may cease at any time, and a neutral
vessel, on a peaceful voyage, and not carrying a contraband
cargo, may lawfully sail for such a port, and, if when she
reaches it the blockade continues, is entitled to a warning.
Thus far it has been assumed that the Adula had actual
knowledge of the blockade when she sailed from Kingston,
and it has been shown that, in the case of a blockade of the
character that this one is claimed to have been, namely, one
created by and depending on the will of the commander of

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Dissenting Opinion: Shims, Gray, White, Peclkham, JJ.

the fleet, the neutral was entitled to a warning, whether she
had or not previous information that a- blockade -had existed
some time before.
But, in point of fact, as I read the evidence, the Adula had
not such previous knowledge, but approached Guantanamo
Bay, within the terms of the President's proclamation, without hotice or knowledge of the establishment of a blockade,
and was therefore entitled to be "duly warnied by the commander of the blockading, forces."
Captain Yeates, Purser Williamson and Solis testified in
direct terms that they had no 'knowledge or information
before sailing that Guantanamo was blockaded. The only
testimony to the contrary, was that of Morris, a -colored seaman, who said that about three days before he left Kingston
he heard that Guantanamo was blockaded. He does not give
the source of his information, or pretend that he made known
the matter to the owners or to the officers of the vessel.
Probably all he meant was that he had heard that the United
States fleet was at Guantanamo. The other facts plainly corroborate the captain's testimony. Consider the direction contained in the instructions given the captain, and shown in the
-ecord: "On your arrival at Guantanamo, to which port you
will proceed direct, you will find, no doubt, American war
ships off. the port. You will, when signalled to, immediately
stop and communicate to the'commanding officer the voyage
you are on, and, in fact, you can show him these sailing orders,
and I do not think that the commanding officer will make any
trouble whatever to your continuing the voyage into the port.
At Guantanamo it is likely there may be some difficulty in obtaining a pilot, and if the commanding officer gives
you permission to proceed it is just possible that he may be
able to tell you where you can obtain the services of a pilot
to go in." Such instructions are not consistent with knowledge, on the part of the general agent who gave them, that
a blockade was actually in force, nor with any intention to
violate it.
So, too, the conversation that Solis, the charterer, had with
the United States consul at Kingston, in which he sought to

, -THE ADULA.
Dissenting Opinion: Shiras, Gray, White, Feckham, 'JJ.

obtain a passport for the voyage, and in which -he informed
the consul of the object of the voyage, and of his intention
to"ask permission of the American Admiral to enter the port,
shows that no clandestine or improper voyage was intended.
A person designing to violate a blockade assuredly would not
inform the consul of the nation whose vessels were maintaining the blockade of the time and circumstances of his
voyage.
Solis further testified that he first -heard of the blockade on
the Adula on June 28; that he then heard -tbaton the 27th
there was issued an order of the President of the United States
declaring a blockade, etc. But as it is not pretended that, the
President had issued any such proclamation, it is evident that
Solis was speaking of a mere rumor; and he immediately
added: "I understood Guantanamo was not declared officially
blockaded, although there were some vessels there. I got that
information from newspapers in Kingston and from those newspapers I got the information that marines had been landed at
the entrance to the bay on the east side."
It is stated, in the opinion of the majority, that the American
consul warned Mr. Forwood, the.agent of the ship at I ingston,
of the existence. of the blockade. This statement is based on
Forwood's recital of what passed between the consul and himself, in the following language: "Well, Forwood, I would not
advise you to let the ship go. They won't let her into Guantanamo, and they will be watching for her." So far from this
language importing a notification of an existing blockade, it
rather implies the contrary- that the voyage would be fruitless because the consul believed that the ship would not be
allowed to enter the destined port. It certainly cannot be
regarded as an official notice of an 'xisting blockade, as is
claimed in the argument for the captors. The consul was right,
in the existing circumstances, in declining to give the permit
desired; but he had no. power to declare a port to be in blockade, nor did he pretend to do so.
So far, therefore, as respects the matters urged as evidence,
that the Adula, her owners, master or charterer knew, or had
any good reason to believe, that, at the time she sailed, there

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Dissenting Opinion: Shiras, Gray, White, Peckham, JJ.

was an existing blockade of. the port of Guantanamo, they
seem to me to be "trifles light as air."
What this court said, through Mr. Justice Grier, in the Prize
casee, 2 Black, 635, may well be repeated here:
"All reasonable doubts shall be resolved in favor of the
claimants. Any other course would be inconsistent with the
high administration of the law, and the character of a just
government."
Some make-weights are attempted to be thrown into the
scales by adverting to the fact that Solis had passports from the
Spanish consul, and the following cases are cited in the majority opinion: The Julia,8 Cranch, 181; The Aurora, 8 Cranch,
203; The Hiram,1 Wheat. 440, and The Ariadne,2 Wheat. 143.
The case of The Tulia was thus stated by Mr. Justice
Story:
"It is sufficient to declare that we hold that the sailing on
a voyage under the license and passport of protection of the
enemy in furtherance of his views or interests, constitutes such
an act of illegality as subjects the ship and cargo to confiscation
as prize of war."
Surely; but in the present case there was no license or passport of protection for the voyage in furtherance of the views
and interests of the enemy,but the obnoxious instrument was
a personal passport to Solis, dated April 13, 1897, more than a
year before the war, in the following terms-: "Don Jos6 R. Solis
Yelasquez, native of Santiago de las Vegas, province of Havana,
by profession a merchant, dwells in Marina street, No. -, and
resides habitually in that ward and at that number." Were
these personal passports, one given long before the war and the
other a mere permission to enter cities-on the island, at all similar to the case of The Julia,where, as the opinion in that case
shows, "The master was a part owner of the vessel and cargo,
and the regular depository of all the papers connected with the
,voyage. It -is utterly incredible that he should' not recollect,
in his examination, the existence of these British documents.
They were put on board for the 8jecial safeguardand 8eeurity
of the ve8el and cargo."
In the case of The Aurora, a formal passport or permit had

THE ADULA.
Dissenting Opinion: Shiras, Gray, White, Peckham, JJ.

been given by the British consul to "the American ship Aurora,
'William Augustus Pike, master, burthen 257 tons, now lying in
requesting all officers command.
:Newburyport, etc.,
ing his majesty's ships of war, or private armed vessels belonging to subjects of his majesty, not only to suffer the said Aurora
to pass without molestation, but also to extend to her all due
assistance and protection in the prosecution of her voyage to
the West Indies," etc. The judgment of .the court was thus
stated: "The acceptance and use of an enemy's license on a
voyage to a neutral port, prosecuted in furtherance of the
enemy's avowed objects, is illegal, and subjects vessel and
cargo to confiscation."
In the case of Thd Hiram,the vessel was sailing under protection of an enemy's license to the vessel, and this was held to
have been in principle an offence of trading with the enemy.
In the case of The Ariadne,the vessel was sailing with a license
or passport of protection from the enemy's admiral.
It is scarcely necessary to say that a personal passport given
to Solis, a Cuban, more than a year before the war, cannot be
regarded as ifitended as a passport or protection to a British
vessel, sailing under a British flag, on an errand friendly'to the
United States and their allies. And as respects the permission
Solis had obtained from the Spanish consul'to enter the cities
to which he was bound, "and take passengers, refugees," such
permission was in furtherance of humanity and not of any warlike object or interest.
The conclusions reached may be summarized thus:
(1) The port of Guantanamo was intentionally and as matter of policy left open and free to neutral commerce, not contraband, by the President's proclamations, and the Adula had
a clear right to sail for and enter that port, even if aware that
war vessels of the United States were in occupancy of the port.
Such war vessels would, of course, have a right to prevent the
Adula from entering the port if such entry would interfere with
any military operation in hand.
(2) It was not competent for the commander of the fleet to
extend the proclaimed blockade so as to include a port exempted by the President's proclamation, and to thus make urize

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Syllabus.

of war a neutral vessel approaching such port on a peaceful
errand.
. (3) If an immediate exigency -and none such is shown to
have existed in the present case -justified the Admiral of the
United States in prohibiting the entrance of neutral vessels,
sound principles of international law required that such vessels
should be warned on approaching the. port, and they could not
be seized as lawful prize, unless they disregarded the warning
and attempted again to enter.
This is no time, in the history of international law, for the
courts of the United States, in laying down rules to affect the
rights .Qf neutrals engaged in lawful commerce, to extend and
apply harsh decisions made a hundred years ago, in the stress
of the bitter wars then prevailing when the rights of the com'paratively feeble neutral states were wholly disregarded. Still
less should our courts, as it seems to me was done in this case
by the District Court, adopt strained and unnatural constructions of facts and circumstances, in order to subject vessels of
nations With whom we are at peace to seizure and condemnation.
I am authorized to say that MR. JUSTicE GRAY, N. JUSTICE
and MR. JUsTIcE PE xHAM concur in this dissent.

WHITE

ROLLER v. HOLLY.
ERRO

TO THE COURT OF CIVIL APPEALS FOR THE FOURTH
SUPREME JUDICIAL DISTRICT OF TEXAS.
No. 104. Submitted January 18, 1900.-Deided February 26, 1900.

A. state statute authorizing service of process by publication or otherwise
upon absent and non-resident defendants, has no application to suits in
personam; but is a sufficient authority for the institution of suits in rem,
where, under recognized principles of law, such suits may be instituted
against non-resident defendants.
Where a dtatute specifies certain classes of cases which may be brought
against non-residents, such specification operates as a restriction ana

