UNITED STATES v. BELLINGHAM£ BAY BOOMI CO.

211

Opinion of the Court.

UNITED STATES v. BELLINGHAM BAY BOOM
COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR TE

NINTH

CIRCUIT.
No. 21. Submitted December 15, 19. -Decided

January 29, 1900.

The power of Congress to pass laws for the navigation of public rivers,
and to prevent any and all obstructions therein, cannot be questioned.
When the Attorney General acts under the authority conferred by the river
and harbor act of September 19, 1890, c. 907, he has the right to call upon
the court, upon proper proofs being made, to enjoin the continuance of
any obstruction not authorized by statute, and the court has jurisdiction,
and it is its duty to decide whether the existing obstruction is or is not
affirmatively authorized by law.
In such inquiry the court is bound to decide whether the boom, as existing,
is authorized by any law of the State, when such law is claimed to be a
justification for its creation or continuance.
There is no doubt that the boom in question in this case violates the statute
under which it was built, because it does not allow free passage between
the boom and the opposite shore for boats or vessels as provided for in
the state law.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
JI.. & 1ioitor General for the United States.
No appearance for the Bellingham Bay Boom Company.
AIR. JUSTiCE PEOKHAm

delivered the opinion of the court.

This suit was commenced in the Circuit Court of the United
States for the State of Washington, Northern Division. The
Government brought it under the direction of the Attorney
General, to obtain an injunction enjoining the defendant from
further continuing a certain boom which it bad constructed
across the Noolksack River in that State, and to obt'in the
removal of the same as an obstruction to the navigation of
that river.
The defendant is a corporation organized under the laws of,
the State of Washington, and in its answer it denied that the
boom was an obstruction to the navigation of the river, and

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

alleged that it was duly authorized to construct and maintain
it by virtue of an act of the legislature of the State, and that
it had cotppleted the structure prior to the enactment of the
Federal river and harbor bill on the 19th of 1eptember, in the
year 1890.
The authority under which this suit was commenced is the
river and harbor act of 1890, approved September 19 of that
year, 26 Stat. 426, 454, c. 907, the tenth section of which reads
as follows:
"SEC. 10. That the creation of any obstruction, not affirm-

atively authorized by law, to the navigable capacity of any
waters, in respect of which the United States has jurisdiction,
is hereby prohibited. The continuance of any such obstruction, except bridges, piers, docks and wharves, and similar
structures erected for business purposes, whether heretofore
or hereafter created, shall constitute an offence, and each
week's continuance of any such obstruction shall be deemed a
separate offence. Every person and every corporation which
shall be guilty of creating or continuing any such unlawful
obstruction in this act mentioned, or who shall violate the
provisions of the last four preceding sections of this act, shall
be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and on conviction thereof
shall be punished by a fine Aot exceeding five thousand dollars, or by imprisonment (in the case of a natural person) not
exceeding one year, or by.both such punishments, in the discretion of the court, the creating or continuing of any unlaw- ful obstruction in this act mentioned may be prevented and
such obstruction may be caused to be removed by the injunction of any Circuit Court exercising jurisdiction in any district
in which such obstruction may be threatened or may exist; and
proper proceedings in equity to this end may be instituted under
the direction of the Attorney General of the United States."
On the trial it appeared that the Nooksack River is a navi-gable stream having its source in Whatcom County, State of
Washington, and runs through Whatcom County to Bellingham Bay, emptying into that bay, and thence into the Pacific
Ocean. The waters of the river lie wholly within Whatcom
County, and they are navigable from its mouth for a distance

UNITED STATES v. BELLINGHAM BAY BOOM CO. 213
Opinion of the C6urt.

of several miles towards its source by light water craft. The
boom in question, built by the defendant company at a point
just above where the river empties into the bay, is frequently
an obstruction to the navigation of the river by steamboats
and other craft, as the boom crosses the channel of the'river
zand entirely fills it, excepting that there is what is termed a
"trip," which may be opened and vessels pass through the
same on their way up and down the river. This "trip" is,
however, frequently so choked and blocked up by logs and
drift wood coming down the river as to render it impossible
to open it.
The defendant during the continuance of the boom has
from time to time expended moneys for the improvement of
the navigation of the river by removing brush, trees and
drift from the mouth thereof., and it has removed trees, snhgs
and drift from the channel for a distance of from fifteen to
twenty miles from the mouth of the river. lNavigaion for boats
and water craft has thereby been considerably facilitated, but
at the same time the obstruction to the navigation, of the river
by reason of the existence of the boom is material and at times.
total: The river is used for navigation by steamboats and
small craft for a distance of some miles from its mouth. One
of the chief purposes for which the river is used is as an
outlet for floating saw logs and timber products to the mills
and to market.
The Circuit Court was of optnion that aS the chief value of
the Nooksack River as a highway is for the floating of saw
logs, that persons and corporations having to use it for that
purpose have rights equal to the rights of others to use the
river for a highway for boats and vessels, and that a bIoom 'at
the mouth of the rivet being necessary. foi gathering and
holding logs is to be regarded as an aid to the use. of the
river for a lawful purpose and entitled to protection, the same
as a wharf or pier constructed at a place for the convenience of
vessels; that the boom was constructed under the authority of
the state legislature, and it was for that reason excepted from
the provisions of the tenth section of the act of Congress.
The court therefore dismissed the bill. 72 Fed. Rep. 585.

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

The Government appealed to the Circuit Court of Appeals
for the Ninth Circuit, and that court held that as at the time
of the building of the boom there was no act of Congress on
the subject, and a state statute authorized the building, it
was affirmatively authorized by law within the meaning of
the tenth section of the act of Congress. It also held that
whether or not the boom was constructed in strict accordance
with the terms and provisions of the state statute could not
be considered, as that was a question to be determined by
the state and not by the Federal court. On these grounds. it
affirmed the judgment. .48 U. S. App. 443.
It is evident that thd first sentence of the tenth section of
the Federal act refers to an obstruction created after the
passage of the act. The obstruction prohibited is one that
is "not affirmatively authorized by law," and the section then
provides that "the continuance of any such obstruction,
whether heretofore or hereafter created, shall constitute an offence," and authority is given to the- Attorney
General to cause a suit of this character to be commenced.
At the time when the boom was constructed, Congress had
not by any legislation asserted its authority over nor taken
into its own jurisdiction the- subject of obstructions to the
navigation of this river. The appropriations made by Congress in different years since i884-, for improvements in the
Nooksack, among other rivers in the Territory of Washington,
did not constitute such an assumption of jurisdiction over the
navigation of the Nooksack River as to prevent the State from
legislating upon the subje't. Willamette Iron Bridge Corn.pany v. Hlatch, 125 U. S. 1. As Congress had not assumed
such jurisdiction either at the time of the passage of the act
by the legislature of Washington permitting the construction
of a boom by the defendant, nor at the time, of its actual
construction, then, if it were constructed in a manner conformable to the state statute, it was affirmatively authorized
by law at the time of the passage of the act of Congress. It
is contended by the Government that this term refers to a
law of Congress and does not include -any law of a state
legislature. We do not so construe section 10.

UNITED STATES v. BELLINGIAM BAY BOOM CO.

215

Opinion of the Court.

Congress, it must be assumed, was aware of the fact that
until it acted upon the subject of navigable streams, which
were entirely within the confines of a single State, although
connecting with waters beyond its boundaries, such State
had plenary power over the subject of that navigation, and
it knew that when in the absence of any statute of Congress
on the subject, an obstruction to such a navigable river had
been built under the huthority of an act of the legislature-of the 'State, such obstruction was legal and affirmatively
authorized by law, because it was so authorized by the lawof a State at a time when Congress had passed no act upon
the subject. When Congress, in 1890, passed the river and
harbor bill we think the expression contained in section ten
in regard to obstructions "not affirmatively authorized by
law," meant not only a law of Congress, but a law of the
State in which the river was situated, which had been passed
before Congress had itself legislated upon the subject. An
obstruction created under the authority of a state statute
under such circumstances, we cannot doubt, was an obstruction "affirmatively authorized by law." When, therefore, the
section continues, and provides that "any such obstruction,
. . . whether heretofore or hereafter created," shall constitute an offence, it referred to an obstruction as -described in
the first sentence of the section, namely, an "obstruction not
affirmatively authorized by law." If the obstruction were
affirmatively authorized by a law of the State, it did not come
within the condemnation of the section, and its continuance
was, therefore, valid.
The power of Congress to pass laws for the regulation of
the navigation of public rivers and to prevent any and all
obstructions therein cannot be questioned. When Congress
chooses to act, it is not concluded by anything that the States,
or that individuals by their authority or acquiescence have
done, from assuming entire control of the matter, and abating
any obstructions that may have been made and preventing
any others from being made except in conformity with such
regulations as it may impose. The ultimate power of Congress over the whole subject is undoubted. This has been

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

decided ,innumerous cases, and in the case of Willamette
Iron Bride Co. v. ilatch, 125, U. S. 1, many of them are

referred to by Mr. Justice Bradley in delivering the opinion
of the boiwt. If, however, in exercising its right in regard to
the regulation and cbntrol of commerce, private property must
be taken, the Government is obliged to make compensation
to the owner. Monongahela lTavigation Co. v. United States,
148 U. S. 312, 336. Whether ordering the removal of the
obstruction, unaccompanied by the actual taking of the property, would under other circumstances affect the question of
compensation, it is not necessary to here decide, as for the
reason hereafter given, the boom was an unauthorized obstruction and subject to abatement as such under the act of Congress.
As this defendant claims -that the obstruction in the river
was affirmatively authorzed by an act of the state legislature, we must look at that act for the purpose of determining
the validity of the claim. The act under which the boom was
created is entitled "An act to declare and regulate the powers, rights and duties of corporations organized to build
booms and to catch logs and timber products therein." The
third section provides: "Such corporations shall have the
power ana are hereby authorized, id any of the waters of this
State, or the dividing waters thereof, to construct, maintain
and use all necessary sheer or receiving booms, dolphins, piers,
piles or other structure necessary or convenient- for carrying
on the business of such corporations: P ovided, That such
boom or booms, sheer booms or receiving booms, shall be so
constructed as to allow, the free passage between any of such
booms and the opposite shore for all boats, vessels or steam
crafts of any kind whatsoever, or for ordinary purposes of
navigation." 1 Hill Ann. Stat. Washington, § 1592.
The reading of this section shows that the boom authorized
to be constructed was one which should allow the free passage
between the boom and the opposite shore of boats, vessels,
etc. The evidence shows that this boom -was not so constructed, because it crossed the channel of the river, completely blocking it, and left no space for the free passage of

UNITED STATES v. BELLINGHAM BAY BOOM CO.

217

Opinion of the Court.

boats and vessels between the end of the boom and the opposite shore. The building of the so-called "trip" was no compliance with the act. By the passage of the river and harbor
bill, containing the above mentioned tenth section, Congress
has acted upon the subject, and has provided for the removal
of any obstruction to a navigable river with the exceptions
named in the section. When the Attorney General, therefore, acts under the authority conferred by this statute, he has
the right to call upon the court, .upon proper proofs being
made, to enjoin the continuance of any obstruction not authorized by the statute, and the court has jurisdiction and it is
its duty to decide the question whether the existing obstruction is or is not affirmatively authorized by law. In such
inquiry the court is bound to decide whether the boom as
existing is authorized by any law of the State, when such law
is claimed to be a justification for its creation or continuance.
That question is not for the State alone, but must necessarily
be decided by the Federal court in the course of exercising
the jurisdiction conferred upon it by the Federal statute. We,
therefore, cannot concur with the views of. the Circuit 'Court
of Appeals on this subject.
The authority cited by that court for its position was the
Willamette Iron Bridge Company v. Hatch, 125 .U. S. 1. In
that case, however, there had been no act of Congress upon
the subject of the navigation of the Willamette River, and
without such statute it was held that the United States could
not bring within the scope of its laivs, obstructions and nuisances in navigable streams within a State, such obstructions
and nuisances being offences against the laws of the State
within which the navigable waters -lie, and constitute no
offence against the United States, in the absence of a statute.
The court used the following language:
"There must be a direct statute of the United States in
order to bring within the scope of its laws, as administered by
the courts of law and equity, obstructions and nuisances in
navigable streams within the States. Such obstructions and
nuisances are offences against the laws of the States within
which the navigable waters lie, and may be indicted or pro.

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

hibited as such ; but they are not offences against the United
States laws which do not exist ; and none such exist except
what are tb be found on the statute book.

.

.

.

The usual

case, of course, is that in which the acts complained of are
clearly supported by a state statute; but that really makes no
difference. Whether they are conformable, or not conformable, to the state law relied on, is a state question, not a Federal one. The failure of the state functionaries to prosecute
for breaches of the state law does not confer power upon
United States functionaries to prosecute under a United States
law, when there is no such law in existence."
If there were here no Federal law in existence, then the
question- whether the boom was authorized by a state law or
complied with its provisions, would be a state question, as is
clearly set forth in the above extract. But the Federal law
having been passed, the question then is whether the structure is permitted by that law, and when that law says it may
continue, ifaffirmatively authorized by a state law, the question whether it is so authorized becomes in effect a question
whether the Federal law does or does not permit it. If it
isauthorized by the state law, then the Federal law provides
that it may continue; and whether it is or is not, becomes a
question for the Federal court to decide.
There is no doubt that the boom in question in this case
violates the statute under which it was built, because it does
not allow free passage between the boom and the opposite
shore for boats or vessels as provided for in the state law.
For this reason the Government was entitled to a decision in
its favor, and
life therefore reverse the decrees of the circuit court of
4Appealsfor the Ninth Circuit and of the Circuit Court
of the United States for the District of lVashington,
-Northern Division, and r'emand the case to the Circuit
Court for further proceedings in accordance with this
opinion.

