UNITED STATES- v. PARKHURST-DAVIS CO.

317

Statement of the Case.
with the expectation of the parties that they were to be met
out of current receipts in preference to claims of mortgage
creditors. It is not therefore entitled to the priority claimed.
The view taken of the case by the Circuit Court of Appeals
is indicated by Judge Parlange, whose opinion, on behalf of
that court, thus concludes: "The unusually large purchase of
rails, the time within which they were to be delivered, the
condition of the road, the contracts providing for notes at six
months renewable for a like term at the maker's option, the
hypothecation of securities for the payment of the claim,
the knowledge which the intervenor had of the mortgage,
the fact that the contracts contained no promise to pay out of
any particular fund, the time which elapsed between the date
of the contracts and the appointment of a receiver in cause
No. 185- are circumstances which, taken together, cannot
fail to convince us that the intervenor relied upon the general
credit of the railway company."
The decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals is therefore

Affr~hed.

UNITED

MERSTATES
.
&PRKIIURST-DAYIS
CANTILE COMPANY.

APPEAL FROM THE cIRCUrr COUT

OF THE UNITED STATES FOI-

THE DISTRICT OF KANSAS.
No. 180.

Submitted January 81, 1900. -Decided

February 26,1900.

This case comes within the provision of Rev. Stat. ยง 720 to the effect that
no writ of injunction shall be granted by a court of the United States to
stay proceedings in any court of a State except in matters of bankruptcy.

ON August 21, 1897, the United States filed their bill in
the Circuit Court of the United States- for the District of
Kansas seeking an injunction restraining defendants from
enforcing in .the courts of the State of Kansas certain claims
against Eli G. Nadeau and John Nadeau, members of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Statement of the Case.

Prairie band of Pottawatomie Indians, and residing on a
reserve within the limits of that State. On November 22,
1897, an amended bill was filed, to which bill the defendants
demurred, and on March 4, 1898, the demurrer was sustained
and the bill dismissed. From such order of dismissal the Government took its appeal directly to this court.
The amended bill alleged in substance that the two Indians
were members of the Prairie band of Pottawatomie Indians;
that such band .had a reservation in the county of Jackson,
within the limits of that State; that by the act of Congress
admitting Kansas into the Union it was expressly provided,
among other things, as follows, to wit: "That nothing contained in the said constitution respecting the boundary of said
State shall be construed to impair the rights of person or property now pertaining to the Indians in said Territory, so long as
such rights shall remain unextinguished by treaty between the
United States and such Indians, or to include any territory
which, by treaty with such Indian tribe, is not, without the
consent of said tribe, to be included within the territorial
limits or jurisdiction of any State or Territory; but all such
territory shall be excepted out of the boundaries, and constitute no part of the State of Kansas, until said tribe shall
signify their assent to the President of the United States to
be included within said State, or "to affect the authority of
the Government of the United States to make any regulation
respecting such Indians, their lands, property or other rights
by treaty, law or otherwise, which it w6uld have been
competent to make if this act had never passed;" act of
January 29, 1861, c. 20, 12 Stat. 127; and that the Prairie
band had never in any manner consented or signified to the
President of the United States that any rights of person or
property formerly appertaining to these members should *be
extinguished, nor have they ever consented that they or their
reservation should be governed or controlled by the laws of
the State of Kansas. The bill then proceeds to state a series
of facts tending to show that this-reserve had. been exempted
from the laws of the State of Kansas; that the tribal relation
had been preserved, and the Government superintendency and

UNITED STATES v. PARKHURST-DAVIS CO. 319
Opinion of the Court.

control over the Indians maintained. It further disclosed that
the two Indians had received patents for their respective portions of the reservation, as provided in section 5 of the act of
Congress of February 8, 1887, c. 119, 24 Stat. 388 , that they
resided each on the separate tract or parcel allotted and
patented to him; but, as averred, they had never been
naturalized as citizens of the United States, and had main"tained in all respects their peculiar life as members of the
Indian tribe. The bill also disclosed that the Bureau of
Indian Affairs, prior to the commencement of the actions
referred to, had lawfully authorized the two Nadeaus and
one Henry B. Ekcam, a white man, to trade and do business as licensed traders of the United States, with said Prairie
band of Pottawatomie Indians upon said reservation, under
the firm name and style of Eli G. Nadeau, Son & Company;
and averred that the said Ekcam, in May, 1897, became an
embezzler, and fled ' the country, with practically all the
available means and assets of the firm except a stock of
merchandise located in the storehouse on the reservation.
It alleged that the various defendants, including among
them the sheriff of Jackson County, were, by several writs
already issued out of the state courts, attempting to enforce
claims of the defendants, other than the sheriff, against the
property of said Nadeau and his son. The prayer of the
bill was for an injunction restraining all the parties from
further prosecuting those actions or in any manner proceedIng in the state courts to enforce those claims.
MrM.

Solicitor General and Affr. F.

.

Hu

nhi=for the

appellants.
N'o appearance for appellees.
MR.JusTioE BnEwER, after stating the case as above, delivered the opinion of the court.

It is conceded by counsel for the Government that so much
of the bill as allegeithat by treaties with the Pottawatomie

OCTOBER TERM, 1899. ,
Opinion of the Court.

Indians and the act admitting Kansas into the Union the
reservation was excluded from the State and from the jurisdiction of Kansas, is erroneous, and may be ignored.
Section 6 of the act of February 8, 1887, 24: Stat. 388, c. 119,
8upra, contains this provision:
"Each and every member of the respective bands or tribes
of Indians to whom allotments have been made shall have
the benefit of and be subject to the laws, both civil and
criminal, of the State or Territory in which they may
reside."
Upon these admissions and facts the case comes clearly
within the provision of section 720 of the Revised Statutes,
to the effect that no writ of injunction shall be granted by
a court of the United States to stay proceedings in any court
of a State except in matters of bankruptcy.

Peck v. Jenne8,

7 Hiow. 612, 625 ; lfatsbn v. Jone8, 13 Wall. 679, 719 ; Hainem
v. Carpenter,91 U. $. 254, 257. In this latter cas6, Mr. Justice
Bradley, delivering the opinion of the court, said:
"In the first place, the great object of the suit is to enjoin
and stop litigation in the state courts, and to bring all the
litigated questions before the Circuit Court. This is one of
the things which -the Federal courts are expressly prohibited
froni doing. By the act of March 2, 1793, it was declared
that a writ of injunction shall not be granted to stay proceedings in a state court. This prohibition is repeated in
see. 720 of the Revised Statutes, and extends to all cases
except where otherwise provided by the bankrupt law."
Without stopping_ to consider any other questions presented
by counsel this is siifficient to sustain the ruling of the Circuit
Afirmed.
Court, and the decree is

