OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Counsel for Parties.
#7 6141

578-261

H TINGTON v. LAIDLEY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE DISTRICT OF WEST VIRGINIA.
No. 105. Argued January 18, 19, 1900. -Decided

March 19, 1900.

lu order to maintain a direct appeal to this court from the Circuit Court of
the United States under the act of Mlarch 3, 1891, c. 517, § 5, as to the
jurisdiction of the court below, the record must distinctly and unequivocally show that that court sends up for consideration a single and definite
question of its jurisdiction; but this may appear either by the terms of
the decree appealed from and of the order allowing the appeal, or by a
separate certificate of that court.
A certificate of a question of jurisdiction of the Circuit Court of the United
States, -under the act of March 3, 1891, c. 517, § 5, may be made by the
District Judge, even if the decree was rendered by the Circuit Judge.
The question whether proceedings concerning the legal or equitable title to
land, begun and concluded in the courts of a State, before the commencement of a suit in the Circuit Court of the United States to charge the
land with a trust, afford a defence to this Ault, is not a question affecting
the jurisdiction of that court, but a question affecting the merits of the
cause, and as such to be tried and determined by that court in the exercise of its jurisdiction; and if that court, of its own motion, and without hearing the parties on the question of its jurisdiction, enters a final

decree dismissing the suit under the act of March 3, 1875, c. 137, § 5,
upon the ground that by reason of the proceedings in the courts of the
State the suit does not really and substantially involve a dispute or controversy properly within its jurisdiction, and an appeal is taken to this
court upon the question of jurisdiction only, under the act of March 3,
1891, c. 517, § 5, the decree must be reversed and the cause remanded for
further proceedings

THE statement of the case will be found in the opinion of
the court.
M'. -Maxwell Eartsfor appellant. Mr.F. B. EWlOW was
on his brief.
.Mr.Z. T. Vin8on and .M3'. holmes Conrad for appellees.
Mr. IF. R. Thomp8on, and Mr. W. K. Cowden were on the
brief.
Mr. J. F. Brown and .Mr. F. S. Laidley filed a brief for
appellees.

HUNTINGTON ,v. LAIDLEY.
Opinion of the Court.

MiR.

JUSTiCE

GRAY delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a direct appeal to this court, under the act of
March 3, 1891, c. 517, § 5, from a decree of the Circuit
Court of the United States for the District of West Virginia,
dismissing for want of jurisdiction a bill in equity filed by
Collis P. Huntington, a citizen of New York, as special
receiver of the Central Land Company of West Virginia,
a corporation of West Virginia, against John B. Laidley,
a citizen of West Virginia, and against citizens of other
States, to charge a tract of 240 acres of land in that State
with a trust.
The question of jurisdiction, and the aspect in which it
was presented to the court below, will be best understood
by first giving an outline of the undisputed facts, and of
the proceedings in this case, as gathered from the voluminous record transmitted to this court.
On February 25, 1870, Sarah H. G. Pennybacker, a
married woman, owning a tract of land of 240 *acres in
West Virginia, executed with her husband a deed thereof,
with a separate acknowledgment by each, to Huntington,
who on October 16, 1871, conveyed his title therein to the
Central Land Company; and that company afterwards, and
before April, 1882, sold parts of the tract to one Remley
and to other persons. The sufficiency of Mrs. Pennybacker's
acknowledgment was doubted; and on January 26, 1882,
she, having become a widow, executed and acknowledged,
in due forth of law, a deed of the tract to Laidley. All
those deeds were duly recorded.
In April, 1882, Laidley brought, in the circuit court of
Cabell county in the State of West Virginia, an action of
ejectment against the Central Land Company to recover the
tract of land; and a verdict and judgment obtained by the
Central Land Company in that action were in November,
1887, set aside and reversed by the Supreme Court of
Appeals of West Virginia, and a new trial ordered, upon
the ground that Mrs. Pennybacker's acknowledgment to
her first deed was defective. 30 West Virginia, 505.

OCTOBER TERMr, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

The Central Land Company filed in the county court in
June, 1887, a bill in equity, and in March, 1888, an amended
bill, against Laidley, Huntington, Mrs. Pennybacker and
the several grantees of the Central Land Company, alleging
that Laidley obtained his deed from Mrs. Pennybacker by
fraud, and held the land in trust for the Central Land
Company, and should be restrained from proceeding with
the action at law. The county court dismissed that bill,
and its decree was affirmed in February, 1889, by the
Supreme Court of Appeals. 32 West Virginia, 131.
In September, 1890, the action of ejectment of Laidley
against the Central Land Company (proceedings in which
had been stayed to await the decision in the equity suit)
was tried again in the county court, and a verdict and
judgment returned for Laidley. A petition for a writ of
error to review that judgment was afterwards denied by
the Supreme Court of Appeals; and on March 26, 1891, the
county court issued a writ of possession in favor of Laidley.
A writ of error from this court to the Supreme Court of
Appeals was sued out by the Central Land Company on
July 7, 1891, and was dismissed by this court for want of

jurisdiction on June 3, 1895. 159 U. S. 103.
In November, 1883, Laidley brought in the county court
separate actions of ejectment against Remley and the other
persons who had taken deeds from the Central Land Company of parts of the tract of 240 acres. In each of those
actions, the defendant filed a claim for improvements, and
Laidley (pursuant to the provisions of the Code of West
Virginia of 1891, c. 91, §§ 10-13) elected to allow the
improvements, and on September 10, 1890, took judgment
for the value of the lot recovered, with an order for its
sale, instead of a judgment for the possession of the land,
and for the transfer of the title. On December 15, 1890,
the court appointed speciAl commissioners to make the sales.
On October 21, 1897, the court substituted, instead of those
commissioners, William R. Thompson, and he advertised the
lots for sale.
Meanwhile, on November 11, 1890, Huntington and others,

HUNTINGTON v. LAIDLPY.
Opinion of the Court.

stockholders in the Central Land Company, had filed' in
the Circuit Court of the United States a bill in equity
against the company to wind up its affairs, because its
charter was, about to expire; and on the same day the
court appointed Frank B. Enslow temporary receiver to
take possession of all its property. On December 16, 1890,
Enslow reported to the court that lie h ad taken possession
of all the property of the company, including the tract of
240 acres; and the court appointed Huntington special
receiver, and directed Enslow to turn over all its property
to him, which was accordingly done.
On February 28, 1891, Huntington, as such special receiver,
filed in the Circuit Court of the United States against
Laidley, and against sundry persons claiming under grants
from him, the bill in the present case, which set forth the
convoyances from Mrs. Pennybacker to Huntington, from
him to the Central Land Company, from that company to
Remley and others, from Mrs. Pennybacker to Laidley, and
from him to the other defendants, and the appointment of
Huntington as receiver; alleged that the deed from Mrs.
Pennybacker to Huntington was duly acknowledged by
her, and was valid; and that Laidley's acts, in obtaining
the later deed from her to himself, and in conveying parts
of the land to other persons, were in fraud of the rights
of the 'Oentral Land Company, and created a cloud upon
the title of that company and of those claiming under it;
and prayed for an injunction against the defendants from
interfering with the plaintiff's possession of the tract of 240
acres, and from doing any act tending to affect his title, or to
cast a cloud upon it, and from proceeding to enforce any claim
to, or taking possession of, or making any sales of, any of the
lots sold by the Central Land Company; and further prayed
that.the deed from Mrs. Pennybacker to Laidley, and his deeds
to the other defendants, be declared void. On the filing of
the bill, a temporary injunction was issued as prayed for.
On January 12, 1892, a demurrer by Laidley to this bill, and
a motion by him to dissolve the injunction, were both overruled.

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

On January 26, 1894, the plaintiff filed an amended bill in
this cause, repeating the allegations and prayers of the original
bill; and further alleging that, by reason of certain facts fully
and specifically set forth, and alleged to have been discovered
by the plaintiff since he filed the original bill, the acts of Laidley in procuring the deed to himself from Mrs. Pennybacker
were done while he stood in a confidential relation to Huntington, and were fraudulent as against Huntington and the Central
Land Company; and also alleging that, if the legal title passed
,to Laidley by his deed from Mrs: Pennybacker, he and his
grantees held the legal title in trust for the plaintiff and the
grantees of the Central Land Company; and therefore praying that the defendants might be decreed to convey the lands,
so held by them respectively, to Jluntingtonas receiver of the
Central Land Company, and to the grantees of that company.
On February 26, 1896, Laidley and the other defendants
filed a plea and answer, in which they denied the allegations
of the bill; set up by way of estoppel the judgments in the
state courts in favor of Laidley and against the Central Land
Company, in the action of ejectment, and in the suit in equity,
between them; and claimed to be allowed the amounts awarded
to Laidley in his actions of ejectment against Remley and
others.
On December 26, 1896, the plaintiff was allowed to further
amend his bill in particulars which need not be stated; and
the defendants filed the same plea and answer to the bill as so
amended.
On July 12, 1897, the court, upon a hearing of the parties,
adjudged that "said plea of res adjudicata" be overruled ; and
gave the defendants leave to answer the, bill; and denied
motions of the defendants to dissolve the injunction, and to
remove Huntington from the office of receiver.
On July 13, 1897, Laidley filed another plea and answer,
setting up, in different form, substantially the same defences
as in the former plea and answer. On September 4, 1897, the
other defendants filed an answer to that bill ; and the plaintiff
obtained an order on Laidley, returnable January 10, 1898, to
show cause why his new plea and answer should not be stricken

HUNTINGTON v. LAIDLEY.
Opinion of the Court.

from the files as irregular. On October 4, 1897, the plaintiff
filed a general replication to the answer 9f the other defendants.
On December 17, 1897, Huntington, as plaintiff in the case
at bar, filed a petition in the Circuit Court of the United States
for a rule against Laidley and against his attorneys, Z. T.
Vinson and William R. Thompson, to show cause why they
should not be fined and attached for contempt in violating the
injunction granted by that court in February, 1891, by undertaking to sell the lots described in Laidley's actions of ejectment against Rernley and others. On December 20, 1897,
Laidley and Thompson filed answers to this rule, and annexed
thereto as exhibits copies of the proceedings in those actions
of ejectment.
On December 20, 1897, on motion of the plaintiff, the court
extended the time for taking the testimony in. the cause until
ninety days after the hearing on the motion to strike out
Laidley's plea and answer.
On March 3, 1898, the rule for an attachment for contempt
was argued. On June 25, 1898, the court entered an order
discharging that rule, because, as the order stated, the court
found that the circuit court of Cabell county, West Virginia,
had taken jurisdiction of the parties and the subject-matter,
prior to the institution of this suit, and the cause was still pending in that court, and therefore the Circuit Court of the United
States had no jurisdiction to grant the injunction restraining
the sale of the property under decrees of the state court.
On the same day, and without any further hearing in the
cause, the court, of its own motion, entered a final decree, as
follows: "This cause having come on this 25th day of June,
1898, to be considered by this court upon a petition filed by
the complainant herein on the 17th day of December, 1897,
praying that a rule be issued requiring that John B. Laidley,
one of the defendants herein, and his attorneys, Z. T. Vinson
and W. R. Thompson, should appear and show cause why they
should not be fined and attached for contempt for violating the
injunction order heretofore entered in the above entitled cause,
and upon the answer and exhibits attached thereto of the said
Ve0.

cX X--43

OCTOBER VERM. 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

defendant, John B. Laidley, to said petition, and upon the
answers and exhibits attached thereto of his attorneys, Z. T.
Vinson and W. R. Thompson, thereto, and upon the bill andthe answers to said bill; and the court having considered the
matter, and having duly examined the bill and- amended bills
herein, and the answers of the defendant and the exhibitsattached thereto, and the records in the ejectment suits in
the circuit court of Cabell county, in which John B. Laidley
was plaintiff and the Central Land Company of West Virginia
and others were defendants, and the record in the chancery
cause in the circuit court of Cabell county, in which the Central Land Company of West Virginia was plaintiff and John
B. Laidley and others were defendants, which said records in
said state court actions were not disputed or denied by the com-.
plainant; and it appearing from such examination to the satisfaction of this court, upon consideration thereof, that this suit
does not really and substantially iivolve a dispute or controversy properly within the jurisdidtion of this court, because of.
the pendency in the state court, prior to the commencement
of this suit, of the action of ejectment in which John B. Laidley was plaintiff and the Central Land Company of West Virginia Was defendant, which was b egun in the circuit court of
Cabell county, West Virginid, on the first Monday of April,
1882, and of the other actions in ejectment brought in said
state court by the said John B. Laidley as plaintiff in relation
to the property in question in this suit, prior to the commencement of this cause, and of the chancery cause in *said state
court in which the Central Land Company of West Virginia
was plaintiff and John.B. Laidley and others were defendants,
which was brought in said state court prior to the commencement of this cause; and this court being therefore, for the
aforesaid reason, of the opinion that it is required to dismiss this
suit by the fifth section of the act of Congress, approved.Mar-bh
3,1875, and entitled 'An act to determine the jurisdiction of
Circuit Courts of the Unit.ed States, and to regulate the removal
of causes from state courts, and for other purposes,' it is now
therefore, on this court's own motion;adjudged and decreed
that this suit and the bill and amended bills therein be and

HUNTINGTON v. LAIDLEY.

675

Opinion of the Court.

they hereby are, dismissed and stricken from the docket of
this court, without costs."
On the same day, the following proceedings took place,
and were filed in the Circuit Court of the United States,
namely: The plaintiff presented a petition for an appeal from
that decree to this court, under the act of March 3, 1891, c.
517, § 5, alleging that he was aggrieved by the final decree by
which the Circuit Court of the United States, notwithstanding that it had the first actual pkysical possession of the land
involved in this cause, dismissed the suit on the ground that it
had no jurisdiction thereof, because of the pendency of -the suits
in the state court, begun prior to the commencement of this
cause. And the District Judge signed an order "that the
appeal be allowed. as prayed for;" approved an appeal bond;
and signed a citation to the appellees, as well as a certificate in.
these terms: "A final decree having hben entered herein on
the 25th day of June 1 898, dismissiig this suit and the bill and
amended bills therein: Now therefore this court, in pursuance of the second paragraph of the fifth section of the act of
Congress, approved March 3, 1891, and entitled ' An act to
establish Circuit Courts of Appeals, and to define and regulate
in certain cases the jurisdiction .of the courts'of the United
States,. and for other purposes,' hereby certifies to the Supreme
Court of the United States for decision the question of the
jurisdiction alone of this court over this cause, as follows:
Is this court without jurisdiction of this cause, because of the
pendency in the state court, prior to the commencement of
this suit, of the action of ejectment in which John B. laidley
was plaintiff and the Central Land Company of West Virginia
was defendant, which was begun in the circuit court of
Cabell county, West Virginia, on the first Monday in April,
1882, and of the other actions in ejectment brought prior to
this cause in said state court by the said John B. Laidley as
plaintiff, in relation to the property in question in this suit,
and of the chancery cause in which the Central Land Company
of West Virginia was complainant and John B. Laidley and
others were defendants, which was brought in said state court
prior to the commencement of this cause?"

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

The appeal in this case is taken under that clause of the
act of :March 3, 1891, c. 517, § 5, which provides that appeals
or writs of error may be taken from the Circuit Court of the
United States directly to this court "in any case in which the
jurisdiction of the court is in issue; in such cases the question
of jurisdiction alone shall be certified to the Supreme Court
from the court below for decision." 26 Stat. 827.
The appellees have moved to dismiss the- appeal, upon the
ground that the decree of dismissal involved the consideration
and determination of the legal effect and conclusiveness of the
several judgments and decrees of the state courts, and therefore the appeal should have been to the Circuit Court of
Appeals, and not to this court; and upon the further ground
that the District Judge could not certify a question- decided
by the Circuit Judge, or allow an appeal from his decree.
In order to maintain the appellate jurisdiction of this court
under this clause, the record must distinctly and rinequivocally
show that the court below sends up for consideration a single and definite question of jurisdiction. This may appear,
in either of two ways; by the terms of the decree appealed
from and 6f the order allowing the appeal; or by a separate
certificate of the court below. Aaynard v. Iecht, 151 U. S.
824; 7n re Lehigh Co., 156 U. S.322; Shields v. Coleman, 157
U. S.168; Interior Construction Co. v. Gibney, 160 U. S.217;
Van Wagenen v. Sewall; 160 U. S. 369; Chappell v. United
States, 160 U. S.499; Davis v. Geissler,162 U. S.290. In the
case at the bar it appears in both ways.
The final decree of the Circuit Court of the United States
recited that, at the hearing upon the petition for a rule for an
attachment for contempt, the court examined the bill and
amended bills and the ansvers thereto, and the undisputed
records of the suits in the state court; and that from such
examination it appeared to the satisfaction of the court that
this suit did not really and substantially involve a dispute or
controversy properly within its jurisdibtion, because of the
pendency of those suits in the state court, and for that reason the court was uf opinion that it was required by section
5 of the act of March 3, 1875, c. 137, to dismiss the suit;

HUNTINGTON v. LAIDLEY.
Opinion of the Court.

and it was therefore, upon the court's own motion, adjudged and decreed that the suit be dismissed. The act of
March 3, 1875, c. 137, § 5, referred to in that decree, provides
that if in any suit commenced in a Circuit Court of the
United States, it appear to the satisfaction of that court, at
any time after. the suit is brought, "that such suit does not
really and substantially involve a dispute or controversy
properly within the jurisdiction of said Circuit Court," that
cfrt shall dismiss the suit. 18 Stat. 472. And such dismissal
for want of jurisdiction is reviewable by this court under the
act of March 3, 1891, c. 517, § 5. Wetmore v. R2ymer, 169
U. S.115. The,final decree, therefore, clearly shows that the
question decided below was a specific -question of jurisdiction
only. This dismissal of the suit for want of jurisdiction was
the only ground assigned for the appeal; and the appeal
wai allowed "as prayed for."
The same question is also distinctly stated in the certificate
made and filed by the District Judge on the same day on
which the final decree was entered, and on which he allowed
the appeal and signed the citation. It does not appear from
the record, and is immaterial, whether the final decree was
rendered by the Circuit Judge or by the District Judge. The
District Judge was a judge of the Circuit Court of the United
States, and as such had aathority to allow the appeal and to
sign the citation, even if the decree was rendered by the Circuit Judge. Rev. Stat. §§ 999, 1012; Rodd v.,Heartt, 17 Wall.
354. We can have no doubt that the District Judge, who as
a judge of the Circuit Court lawfully allowed the appeal and
signed the citation, was authorized also to certify to this court
the question of jurisdiction determined by that decree.
The question of jurisdiction. then, appearing by the decree
itself and by the order allowing the appeal therefrom, as well
as by the distinct and contemporaneous certificate, to have
been the only question on which the decree below was based,
is rightly before this court for determination.
The condition of the 'cause, at the time when the Circuit
Court of the United States entered a final decree dismissing
it for want of jurisdiction, was as follows: An injunction

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

had been granted upon the filing of the bill. The court had
overruled a demurrer to the bill, as well as a plea of all the
defendants setting up the judgments in the state courts as res
adjudicata; and had given leave to the defendants to answer
the bill. Thereupon the defendant Laidley filed a plea and
answer setting up substantially the same defences as before;
and the plaintiff obtained an order to show cause why this
plea and answer should not be stricken out as irregular. The
other defendants answered.the bill, and the plaintiff filecd a
general replication to their answer. The court extended the
time for taking testimony in the cause until ninety days after
hearing the motion to strike out Laidley's plea and answer.
That motion was never heard; the time allowed for taking
testimony had not expired; and the cause was not heard, or
ready to be heard, as between the plaintiff and any of the
defendants, except upon a rule (which had been obtained by
the plaintiff and argued by both parties) for an attachment
against Laidley and his attorneys for contempt in violating
the injunction previously granted. Yet the court not only
discharged the rule for an attachment for contempt, but at
the same time, of its own motion, and without any further
hearing of the cause, or of any matter therein, entered the
final decree- dismissing the suit for want of jurisdiction. This
action of the court was irregular. The defendant, as the case
stood, was not entitled to present any objection to the jurisdiction of the court over the principal cause; and the plaintiff
was entitled to be heard upon any such objection taken by the
court of its own motion. H-artog v. Memory, 116 U. S. 588;
Morris v. Gilmer, 129 U. S. 315, 327; lWetmore v. R2ymer,
169 U. S. 115, 122, 123.
Independently of that consideration, the decree dismissing
this suit for want of jurisdiction was erroneous. It may be
that the order discharging the rule for an attachment for a
contempt in violating the injunction by proceedings under
orders of the state court was correct. Rev. Stat. § 720; .Diggs
'v. Wolcott, 4 Cranch, 179; Riggs v. Johnson County, 6 Wall.
166, 195; Central Bank v. Stevens, 169 U. S. 432, 460. But
it by no means follows that the Ciicuit Court of the United

HUNTINGTON v. LAIDLUY.
Opinion of the Court.

States had no. jurisdiction to entertain this suit for any purpose.
Before the commencement of the present suit, all the proceedings between Laidley and The Central Land Company in
the state court, which affected the whole tract of 240 acres,
had been brought to an end - Laidley's action of ejectment
against the Central Land Company, by a judgment and a writ
of possession in Laidley's favor; and the Central Land Company's bill to restrain Laidley from proceeding with that action,
by a decree dismissing the bill.- And Laidley's proceedings in
ejectment in the state court against Remley and others concerned only the legal title in parts of the tract of 240 acres.
The present suit seeks to charge the whole tract with a
trust in favor of the plaintiff as receiver of the Central Land
Company. Under the circumstances of this case, the question
whether the proceedings in any or all of the suits, at law or
in equity, in the state court, afforded a defence - either. by
way of re8 adjudicata,or because of any control acquired by
the state court over the subject-matter'-to this bill in the
Circuit Court of the United States, was not a question affecting the jurisdiction of that court, but was a question affecting
the merits of the cause, and as such to be tried and determined by that court in the exercise of its jurisdiction. The
Circuit Court of the United States cannot, by treating a question of merits as a question of ,jurisdiction, enable this court,
upon a direct appeal on the question of jurisdiction only, to
decide the question of merits, except in so far as it bears upon
the question Whether the court below had or had not jurisdiction of the case.
In any aspect of the case, the decree of the Circuit Court
of the United States, dismissing-the suit for want of jurisdiction, must be reversed, and the cause remanded to that court
for further proceedings therein.
The case of Blythe v. Hincdey, 173 U. S. 501, cited by the
appellees, has no tendency to support .the opposite conclusion.
In that case, this court dismissed the appeal, because the decree below was not founded solely upon a want of jurisdiction
in the Circuit Court of the United States, but also upon the

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Dissenting Opinion: Brewer, J.

grounds that the plaintiff's remedy was at law and not in
equity, and that certain judgments of the state courts could not
be reviewed on the reasons put forward. And of the last
ground this court, speaking by the Chief Justice, said that it
"was not in itself a decision of want of jurisdiction because
the Circuit Court was a Federal court, but a decision that
the 'Circuit Court was unable to grant relief because of the
judgments rendered by those other courts.' 173 U. S. 507.
.Decree r'vrsed, and cause r'emanded for further proceeding8.
Yu. JusTion BREWEIn

dissenting.

I dissent from the opinion and judgment in this case. In a
purely technical sense it may not be open to criticism. But
when, as disclosed, it appears that in the state courts by final
determinations, beyond any opportunity of review, the legal
and equitable title to the tract in controversy has been adjudged to be in Laidley, (even if there be question of the
correctness of those decisions,) it seems to me that under the
act of March 3, 1875, referred to in the opinion of the majority, the Federal court not only may rightfully-but also should
hold that whatever may be the state of the pleadings the litigation in that court must stop. Of course, everybody knows
that when there has been in separate actions in courts of law
and equity final determination as to both the legal and equitable title there is no excuse for further litigation, and I think
that we sacrifice substance to form when we hold that the
Federal court should not, when these facts are disclosed, act
promptly, but must wait until the issues presented by pleadings have been attempted to be supported by testimony and
the case is ready for final hearing. Intere8t re~publice ut sit
finis litium.

