OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Counsel for Parties.

ment as the Secretary finds as a fact that it was made -in
good faith."
For these reasons we are of opinion that the judgment of
the Court of Appeals was right, and it is
Affirmed.

UNITED STATES v. ORTIZ.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF PRIVATE LAND CLAIMS.
No.20. Argued October 11, 1899. -Decided

February 26, 1900.

In the hearing of an application for confirmation of an alleged Mexican grant
the law casts primarily upon the applicant the duty of tendering such pro6f
as to the existence, regularity and archive record of the grant, as well as
his connection with it, such as possession, ownership and other related
incidents, of sufficlent probative force to create a just inference as to the
reality and validity of the grant, before the burden of proof, if at all, can
be shifted from the claimant to the United States.
The surveyor general had authority to make a supplementary investigation,
and the supplementary proceedings were properly admitted in evidence.
The special qualifications of the witness Tipton, resulting from ils great
familiarity with the signatures of Armijo and Vigil, qualified him to
testify as an expert as to the genuineness of the signatures upon the
alleged grant which were claimed to be theirs.
Genuine signatures of Armijo and of Vigil, shown to have come from the
archives, were proporly received in evidence as standards of comparison
with the signatures offered to prove the alleged grant.
Enlarged photographs of such original signatures were also properly received.
After an extended examination of the testimony, the court holds that It is
unnecessary to examine or decide upon the questions made as to the form
of the alleged grant and other questions, and refrains from expressing an
opinion upon all, and holds that the court below erred In confirming the
grant.

THE

statement of the case will be found in the opinion of the

court.
Afr. TiW=am H. Pope for appellant. XM. Solicitor General
'and Xr.. Matthew G. ]eynold8 were on his brief.
Mr. T. B. Oatron for appellees.

UNITED STATES v. OITIZ.
Opinion of the Court.

MR.

JusTioE WmTE, delivered the opinion of the court.

Did the court below err in confirming an alleged Mexican
land grant, is the inquiry which arises on this record.
The asserted grant is designated as the "Sierra Mosca," and
embraces many thousand acres of land situated in the county
of Santa Fe, New Mexico. The official proceedings had in relation to the grant prior to the commencement of this suit were
as follows : In 1872 a petition was filed before the surveyor
general of N~ew Mexico, -sking the confirmation of the grant
in the name of "the heirs and those holding under them of
Juan Luis Ortiz, deceased." No other or fuller description of
the persons asserting the right appeared in the proceedings.
The survey6r general, after hearing, forwarded his recommendation that the grant be confirmed, to the Commissioner
of the General Land Office in October, 1873, and the papers
were in the same year submitted by the Secretary- of the
Interior to Congress. The proceedings before the surveyor
general and the resulting official action, as above stated,
were by virtue of the act of Congress of July 22, 1854, 9. 103,
10 Stat. 308. No action having been taken by Congress, in
December, 1876, certain persons alleging themselves to be part
owners of a claimed Spanish grant of land, which it was averred
conflicted with the one in question, petitioned the then surveyor
general of New Mexico to hear additional testimony as to the
reality of the grant which had been recommended for confirmation, on the ground that the testimony when heard would
establish that the grant had been erroneously recommended
for confirmation, because, among other reasons stated, it was a
forgery. Whilst intimating a doubt as to his power to review
the action of his predecessor in office, the surveyor general yet
ordered the inquiry to be made, and, after some lapse of time
on due notice, testimony was taken. In consequence of the
notice given, the attorney for the petitioners, on the original
application to confirm, appeared and cross examined the witnesses. Subsequently acting upon such evidence, the then
incumbent of the surveyor general's office transmitted the proceedings to the Commissioner of the General Land Office with

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

the recommendation that the grant be rejected on the ground
that it was affirmatively shown by the proof to be a forgery.
This supplementary report and papers were also, in December,
1887, submitted by the Secretary of the Interior to C6ngress
for its consideration.
No action having been taken by Congress upon either the
original or supplementary report the present suit was commenced, in the Court of Private Land Claims, .to obtain the
confirmation of the grant. The petition by which the cause
was initiated was filed in the name of Luis Maria Ortiz and
Tomaz Ortiz, and averred that the alleged Sierra Mosca grant
had been made on June 4, 1846, by Manuel Armijo, the then
governor of the Territory of New Mexico, to -Juan Luis Ortiz,
and that the grantee had on June 8, 1846, been llaced in legal
possession of the granted land by Jose Dolores Trujillo, a justice of the peace, according to the laws and customs then in
force in the Republic of Mexico. ' It was averred that "the
original papers relating to this said grant of land are now on
ile in the office of the surveyor general of the Territory of New
Mexico, known in that office as private land claim No. 75, for
the Sierra Mosca tract, and are not in the control of the plaintiffs, so that they can file them herewith." A copy, however,
with a translation of the papers thus referred to, was annexed
to the petition. The petitioners asserted their right under the
grant as follows: "The plaintiffs are the owners in fee in and
to the said land grant by inheritance from their father, Gaspar
Ortiz, who acquired his title thereto, as they are informed and
believe, by inheritance from his father, and their grandfather,
Juan Luis Ortiz, the original grantee, and by purchase from the
other heirs of the same." No enumeration of the other heirs
*and no more precise specification of the date and character of
the alleged purchase was contained in the petition.
The petition was generally traversed, and subsequently an
answer was filed, specifically averring that the alleged granting
papers were forgeries, and denying that delivery of possession
had ever been made by a justice of the peace, as stated in the
petition. After trial upon these issues, the grant was confirmed,
Murray, J., dissenting.

UNITED STATES v. ORTIZ.
Opinion of the Court.

Inverting the order in which they have been discussed at bar
and stating them in a condensed form, the questions presented
for decision axe : First. Does the proof establish that the grant
in question was made and that delivery of juridical possession
thereunder was operated by a Mekican official charged with
such duty? Second. If it be found that the grant was made,
was there legal power in the then governor of New Mexico to
make it, and, if so, was the power so executed as to authorize
the court to enter a decree of confirmationw? The first of these
questions opens for consideration not only the issue of forgery,
but also involves deciding whether the proof is of such a character as to engender the affirmative conviction of the genuineness of the granting papers. The second raises several
questions of law -that is, as to the power of the governor,
at the date when the alleged grant is averred to have been
made, the necessity of approval of his action by the departmental assembly, and other legal issues. Necessarily, all the
question: coming under the second head arise only in the event
the objections to the confirmation of the grant embodied in the
first proposition are found to be untenable.
Before analyzing the evidence in order to develop and weigh
the proof tending to show the existence of the grant, it will subserve clearness of statement, at the outset, to determine upon
whom is cast the burden of showing the existefice of the grant,
and in a general way to consider briefly the quantum of proof
required for that purpose. By-the first subdivision of section
13 of the act of March.3, 1891,,c. 539, 26 Stat. 851, constituting
the Court of Private Land Claims, that court and this court are
commanded not to allow a claim "that shall not appear to be
upon a title lawfully and regularly derived from the Government of Spain or Mexico," etc. The statute authorizes no presumption in favor of the genuineness of a title from the mere
fact that the claimant for confirmation presents a paper which
is asserted to be a grant from a Mexican official. The command of the statute is not that the United States, when an
alleged Mexican title is presented for confirmation, shall be
put to the burden of showing that the title in question is not
genuine, but that the evidence presented in favor of the asserted

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

title shall be of such persuasive and preponderating force as to
convince the court that the title is real, and besides, possesses
the ,legal attributes which the statute requires as essential to
confirmation. It is clear then that the law casts, primarily,
upon the applicant for confirmation, the duty of tendering such
proof as to the existence, regularity and archive record of the
grant as well as his connection with it, such as possession, ownership and other related incidents, of sufficient probative force
to create a just inference as to the reality and validity of the
grant before the burden of proof, if at all, can be shifted from
the claimant to the United States. This construction which
arises from the text of the act of 1891 is sustained by considering that previous to that enactment there had been many decisions of this court, rendered under the California act of 1851,
construing that act as imposing upon the claimants for confirmation the primary burden of proof, although the provisions of
the California act were not as explicitly mandatory as are those
of the act of 1891. Thus from the date of the decisioil in
United Staies v. -Cambuston,20 How. 59, announced in 1857, to
the ruling in Berreyesa v. United States, 154 U. S. 623, rendered in 1876,. it was often decided that the burden of proof to
sustain a Spanish grant rested upon the claimants, and that
the failure to show that the official archives contained evidence
that the grant had been made and the fact of the production
of the original title papers solely from the custody and possession of the grantee were circumstances so suspicious as to create a presumption against the genuineness of the grant, calling
for the production by the grantee of more than slight evidence
to overthrow the presumption. Lueo v. United States, 23 How.
515, 528; Peraltav. United States, 3 Wall. 434, 440. Indeed,
this burden of proof resting upon the grantee had been frequently declared by this court, prior to the enactment of the
law of 1891, to be essentially necessitated by the situation and
as the sole means of avoiding the danger of imposing upon the
United States by means of forged or fabricated grants. United
States v. Tescimalker, 22 How. 392, 405 ; United States v. Pico,
22 How. 406; Fuentes v. United States, 22 How. 443; Luco v.
United States, 23 How. 515-; Un ited States v. Bolton, 23 Io w.

UNITED STATES v. ORTIZ.
Opinion of the Court.

341, 347; Palmer v. United States, 24 How. 125; United
States v. Knight's Administrators,1 Black, 227; United States
v. Nekigh, 1 Black, 298; United States v. Vallejo, i Black,
541; White v. United States, 1 Wall. 660; Romero v. United
States, 1 Wall. 721, 743; Pico v. United States, 2 Wall. 279,
281; Peraltav. United States, 3 Wall. 434.
It is preliminarily necessary to dispose of certain exceptions
taken to the admissibility of evidence, and which are pressed
on our attention.
1. The petitioners in opening their case offered in evidence
the original proceedings before the surveyor general, in.cluding the testimony of the witnesses then examined, after having made the prerequisite proof of death of such witnesses in
accordance with the requirements of section 5 in the act of
1891. 26 Stat. 854. Subsequently, the defendant, in proving
its case, offered the supplementary proceedings which had
been had before the surveyor general (including the testimony
of the witnesses taken in that proceeding- proper foundation
also having been laid for the introduction of such testimony),
the finding of the surveyor general made in the proceedings,
and the forwarding of the whole to the Commissioner of the
General Land Office, and the submissions made of all the
matters in question by the Secretary of the Interior to Congress. All this was objected to on the ground that the power
of the surveyor general was exhausted by the original investigation and report, and that therefore a succeeding incumbent
of the office was without legal authority to have further considered the grant or to have taken any additional testimony
as to its genuineness or validity.
But the function of the surveyor general, under the act of
1854, 10 Stat. 308, was merely advisory, and, until action by
Congress had supervened, it was not only the right, but the
duty of that official, on proper suggestion being made to him,
to hear additional evidence and transmit it for the consideration of Congress, in a claim pending for confirmation.- The
act of the surveyor general in making the supplementary
investigation *,as certainly either directly or impliedly authorized or ratified by his official superiors, since the knowledge of

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

the investigation was conveyed to the Commissioner of the
General Land Office, and not only the action taken by the
surveyor general, but all the papers relating thereto, were by
the Secretary of the Interio laid before Congress. Obviously,
the purpose of the fifth section of the act of 1891, in permitting the use, subject to the restrictions and qualifications found
in the act, of the proceedings bad before the surveyor general,
was to allow all the proof then existing to be received and
to be given such weight as it was entitled to have. The court
below therefore properly admitted the supplementary proceedings.
2. William Tipton was called as a witness foi the government. The witness, after stating that he was appointed bythe Department of Justice to assist in peparing the defence
of cases coming before the Court of Private Land Claims, proceeded to say, that for a-long period of time, covering about
sixteen years, he had been previously employed in the office of
the surveyor general of New Mexico; that in such employ as
clerk, copyist, translator and custodian of the archives, he had
constant official occasion to examine, translate and consider the
Spanish and Mexican archives extant in the office; that, in
consequence of these facts, he was entirely familiar with the
signatures of Governor Armijo and Secretary Vigil, the signatures of whom purported to be affixed to the grant relied
upon; that his knowledge on the subject had been derived
from-examining not less than seventy-five or eighty signatures'
of Governor Armijo, and not less than one hundred and twenty
signatures of Secretary Vigil, found in the. archives, which
were either attached to grants, to the journals'of the territorial deputation and departmental assembly, or to other official documents. Besides the familiarity of the.witness with
the signatures in controversy, he was examined as to his capacity as a general handwriting expert, the whole as a basis for
eliciting from him his opinion as to the genuineness of the signatures referred to. Objection was made to allowing the witness to testify on this subject, because it was contended the
proof did not lay an adequate foundation therefor, and the
overruling of this objection was excepted to.

UNITED STATES v. ORT1Z.
Opinion of the Court.

It is unnecessary to decide whether the witness was competent to express an opinion as a general scientific expert on
handwriting or to consider the limitations as to the admissibility of testimony of that character, since the special qualifications of the witness resulting from his great familiarity,
acquired during a long course of official action, with the official records and the signatures of Governor Armijo and Secretary Vigil, qualified him beyond question to testify as an
expert as to the genuineness of the signatures found upon the
alleged grant. The case is directly within the principle decided in Roge's v. Rittr, 12 Wall. 317, where it was held. that
witnesses who in the course of administration of the duties of an
official position had acquired a familiarity with a certain signature, although they.had never seen the party write and had
never corresponded with him, were competent to express an
opinion on the subject of the genuineness of a signature purporting to have been made by that person. The court said
(p. 322):
"It is settled everywhere, that if a person has seen another
write his name but once he can testify, and that he is equally
competent, if he has personally communicated with: him by
letter, although he has never seen him -write at all. But is
the witness incompetent unless he has obtained his knowledge
in. one or the other of these modes? Certainly not, for in the
varied affairs of life there are many modes in which one person may become acquainted with the handwriting of another,
besides having seen him write or corresponded with him.
There is no good reason for excluding any of these modes of
getting information, and if the court on the preliminary examination of the witness can see that he has that degree of knowledge of the party's handwriting which will enable him to judge
of its genuineness, he slt6tild be permitted to give to the jury
his opinion on the subject."
Referring to the testimony of the witnesses showing knowledge derived from the connection with the official archives
which were .undoubtedly genuine, the court added:
"The three witnesses told enough to satisfy any reasonable
mind that they were better able to judge of the signature of

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

Sanchez, than if they bad only r'eceived one or two letters from
him, or saw him write his name once."
The court below did not err in admitting the testimony.
3. The witness Tipton produced fifteen signatures of Governor Armijo and several of Secretary Vigil, written approximately about the time when the alleged grant in question
purported to have been made, taken from among the signatures of these officers contained in the archives, and they
were offered as standards of comparison with the signatures
found on the grant in controversy. It is objected that the
genuineness of these signatures had noi been adequately
proved, and therefore they should not have been admitted
to be used as standards of comparison.
They were correctly received. The whole testimony of the
witness demonstrated that the signatures in question were upon
documents which the witness produced from the archives, the
appropriate place for them, and the genuineness of the papers
to which they were annexed had never been challenged and
were officially treated as authentic. This justified their admission, at all events in the absence of any suggestion of proof as
to their non-genuineness.
I. The defence caused the signature of Governor Armijo to
the alleged grant and one existing on one of the documents
offered as a standard of comparison, to be photographically
enlarged. After proving by the photographer by whom the
photographs were made the accuracy of the method pursued
.and the results obtained by him, the enlarged photographs
-were tendered and were admitted in evidence over objection. The ruling was correct. 3arcy v. Barn , 16 Gray,
161, 163.
The petitioners offered in evidence the alleged granting
papers, which are reproduced in the margin.' Postponing
for after consideration the determination of the legal value
I [Translation.]
Alleged Documents of Title.
"Most excellent governor and commanding general of the Department of
Mexico:
I, Juan Luis Ortlz, a resident of FoJoaque, before the superiority of your

UNITED STATES v. ORTIZ.
Opinion of the Court.

of the documents so offered, we come to review the evidence
relied upon to show that the asserted grant had been actually
executed. Having proven the death of all the witnesses who
excellency, with the highest respect and in the most ample form allowed by
law and proper for me, appear and state: That, desiring through the most
legitimate and proper means to encourage agriculture, so much recommended
of the laws, and finding myself at this time with land so considerably restricted as not to furnish a fair subsistence for the support of the large
family I provide for, and having seen and. examined with great care a tract
of public land which is situated near the place of my residence, which I
describe to your excellency under the following boundaries: On the east by
a mountain called the Mosca, or Panchuelo slope; on the west one fourth of
a league below the waterfall on the Little Springs Meadow; on the north a
little fiat mountain and some arroyos running. between north and west;
and on the south a rocky hill situated above the Chupadero Valley, or
boundary of the citizens of Tesuque River; and finding in the said tract,
which I solicit of your excellency, the advantage of containing fertile lands
for cultivation, pastures and water sufficient, and else which is needed
necessary for raising stock; and, satisfied, as I am, that it is public and
unappropriated land, as I have already stated, I have not hesitated to apply
to the justice of your excellency, asking, very respectfully, that for the
sake of, and in justice, you be pleased to grant me the said possession,
which I ask in the name of the Mexican nation, to which we have the
honor to belong, protesting that I do not act in dissimulation, and whatever be necessary, etc., stating to your excellency at the same time that
my petition is not upon paper of the proper stamp, there being none in
this city; but I promise to attach one cancelled as soon as there shall be
any.
JuAw Luis ORTIZ.
Most excellent sir,
Saute Fe, June 3, 1846.
SANTA FE, N. M., June 4ta, 1846.
What is stated by the petitioner in the foregoing petition, asking that
there be granted to him the public land which he describes in the same,
being true, and this government being convinced of the good reasons he
sets forth, the petitioner will apply to the proper justice that he may place
him in possession of the land solicited in entire conformity to the laws in
the premises.
Aixmro.
JuA B. ViGm Y ALARm, Sec.
At this place, our Lady of Guadulupe of Pojoaque, on the eighth day of
the month of June, one thousand eight hundred and forty-six, before me,
Citizen Jose Dolores Trujillo, justice of the peace at said place, appeared
Citizen Juan Luis Ortiz, resident of the same, who presented me the foregoing superior decree of Manuel.Armijo, most excellent governor and commanding general of the Departient of lew Mexico, placed upon the margin
of the present petition, dated on the 4th instant, in which I am notified

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

18t2, offer was then
testified before the surveyor general in.
testimony. Upon
such
made of all the proceedings, including
tending to show
witness
this evidence and the testimony of one
the-possession at one time in the original grantee of the granting papers, the claimants in opening rested.
The witnesses who testified before the surveyor general in
1872 were as follows: Antonio Sena, who was for some time
.Orior tp December, 1845, prefect of the department in which
the land in question was situated and who ceased to hold
that office about the itonth stated, and after an interregnum
again held the office after the end of March, 1846; Ramon
Sena y Rivera, who in 1846 was an employee in the office
of the military commandancy of New 'Mexico, under the
official direction of Donsciano Y.igfl, military secretary of
Governor Armijo in June, 1846; and prior thereto; Pablo
Dominguez, who was also employed as clerk in the same office
with Ramon Sena y Rivera, and Joab Houghton, Esq.; an
attorney residing at Santa Fe, who had been United States
vice consul, chief justice and associate justice of the Supreme
Court of the Territory, and register of the United States land
office. Of these witnesses, the two first (the Senas) testified
to place the said Juan Luis Ortiz in possession of the land he requests be
granted him, in conformity with the laws of possession; wherefore, I, said
justice of the peace, accompanied by my attending witnesses, proceeded
to put in execution the said superior decree, which I fulfilled, designating
the boundaries set forth: On the east a high mountain called the Mosca,
or Pachuelo slope; on the west a fourth of a league below the waterfall on
Little Springs Meadow; on the north a 9mall flat mountain, some arroyos
running between west and north; and on the south a rocky hill, which
stands above the Chupadero Valley, or boundary of the residents of Tesuque
River; and having complied with what' I am directed to do by the most
excellent governor and commanding general aforesaid, I gave him to understand that said favor and donation has been conferred upon him in the
name of the Mexicau nation, to which we have the honor of belonging.
And in due testimony as well in the present as in the future, I executed
to him the present document of possession, signed by myself and my
attending witnesses, with whom I act specially for lack of a notary public,
there being none in this department. To all of which I certify.
JosE DOLORES TRuaILo.
Attending: YGNAcIo ALAVD.
Attending: MGUEL GONZALs."

UNITED STATES v. ORTIZ.
Opinion of the Court.

that the grant was genuine, from the faot that they had seen
it executed, one besides swearing that he was present at the
delivery of juridical possession by. Jose Dolores Trujillo,
the alleged justice of the peace. The other two witnesses
(Houghton and Dominguez) testified to their familiarity with
the signatures of Governor Armijo and the ciiil Secretary
Vigil, from having seen them write and sign, and that the
signatures to the alleged grant were in their opinion genuine.
The defence offered the proceedings before the surveyor
general on the supplementary hearing', in 1878, including the
testimony then taken of witnesses since deceased, and then
offered other proof, oral and documentary, tending to make
out the defence. The only evidence directly relating to the
genuineness of the signatures was that of Donaciano Vigil
and William Tipton, the signatures of Armijo and Vigil introduced for the purposes of comparison, and the enlarged photographs heretofore referred. to. The question then is, Did the
evidence offered by the petitioners make out a case, and if. so,
did the defence:rebut the proof, if any, which arose from the
evidence upon which the claimants rested?
Without reference to the testimony of the witnesses on
either side, a comparison of the signatures of Governor Armijo
and Secretary Vigil, as found on the alleged grant, with the
signatures on the documents offered for the purposes of comparison, engenders, in our minds, a very strong conviction
against the genuineness of the grant relied upon. And this
conclusion is not at all shaken by a comparison of the signatures to the grant with those which were introduced, by the
petitioners in rebuttal, also for the purposes of comparison.
Without elaborating the reasons by which the conviction of
want of genuineness is.suggested, by the comparison, it suffices
to say that the entire characteristics of the signatures to the
grant present such saliently suspicious features, when the comparison is made, as to leave it impossible for the mind to resist
if not the absolute conviction, in any event the grave. doubt
which irresistibly arises. It is worthy of being noted that the
surveyor general before whom the first proceedings were had
considered that the mere inspection of the signatures to the
VOL. cLxxvI-28

OCTOBER TERAI, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

grant created such a doubt of its genuineness that he would not
have been able to have recommended confirmation on the face
of the papers, but for testimony taken before him. He said:
"I doubted at first the genuineness of the papers as showing
the grant and possession to have been given as set forth; but
the testimony brought before me, especially of the two last
witnesses, who, beyond all question, are highly respectable
men, has set my mind at rest on that point."
By the application of the rule which we have at the outset referred to, casting upon the claimant the burden of sustaining the validity of an asserted grant, we are compelled to
refuse to affirm the judgment of confirmation, unless the testimony offered for the claimants removes the doubt in question.
Now, the testimony as to the grant as we have seen was
twoTold in its nature. First, Joab Houghton and Pablo Dominguez, who, from a knowledge of the handwriting of the officials, testified that in their opinion the signatures on the grant
were genuine, and that of the two Senas who swore that they
had personally witnessed the execution of the grant, and
therefore gave direct testimony to the genuineness of the signatures. Let us consider whether these two classes of evidence dispel, if not the conviction, at least the grave doubt
which has arisen, as above stated.
The testimony of ]Mr. Houghton, whose sincerity we do not
doubt, embodied but his opinion of the genuineness of the signature. That the appearance, however, of the signatures was,
to his mind - as it was to that of the surveyor general -

sug-

gestive of suspicion, is, we think, manifest from his testimony.
Thus, on being shown the alleged decree or grant, and on
being asked by counsel for claimants whether the signatures
of Armijo and Yigil were genuine or not, the witness said:
"I recognize Armijo's signature as being genuine on this document, as I do that of Juan B. Vigil, though signed somewhat
differently from his usual way." Being interrogated by the
surveyor general, and after stating that he did not know that
Mekican officials used steel pens at Santa Fe in 1846, the witness testified as follows:

UNITED STATES v. ORTIZ.
Opinion of the Court.

"Q. Was Governor Armijo in the habit of becoming i-ntoxicated?
"A. I think not. I have seen him often, but never saw
him intoxicated.
"Q. Have you ever seen him in a condition of excitement
or nervousness, such as would be likely to affect his handwriting if using a kind of pen he was unfamiliar with?
"A. Yes; I have seen him frequently in such a condition,
particularly at the time of the battles in Mexico in 1846, and
of the approach here of the American troops during the summer of 1846."
The testimony of Dominguez also but expressed his opinion.
The probative force of the opinion of this witness as to the
signatures in question is greatly weakened, however, by his
statements on other subjects, such as the possession under the
grant nd the official capacity of Trujillo as justice of the
peace, which, as will be hereafter seen, are entirely irreconcilable with the facts, which if not conclusively established, are
in any event sustained by a preponderance of proof.
In conflict with the opinion of Houghton and Dominguez is
that expressed by Donaciano Vigil in his testimony on behalf
of the Government. He, as has been stated, was military secretary of Governor Armijo at the time the grant was alleged
to have been made, and Dominguez was a clerk in Vigil's
office. With respect to the signatures upon the decree, purporting to have been made by Armijo, the witness said that
he had been intimate with Governor Armijo, and had seen
him write, and was well acquainted with his handwriting, and,
while Unwilling to swear positively that the signature "Armijo" on the decree was not genuine, because the witness had"
not actually seen the name written, the witness swore that
Governor Armijo always wrote his name like the signature
upon a document exhibited by the witness, which he had seen
Armijo write, and further stated that he (the witness) had
never seen a genuine signature of Governor Armijo like that
on the decree of grant, and that, in his judgment, "the signatures is not the same Armijo was accustomed to write."
The testimony of this witness conveys an impression of con-

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
npinton of the Court.

scientious circumspection, the absence of which is particularly
to be remarked in the testimony of Dominguez with which
Vigil conflicts. *The document produced by Vigil as a type
of .the signature of Armijo has been certified up, and placing
it in juxtaposition with the signature of Armijo 6d the alleged

grant fortifies and strengthens the doubt arising from the
comparison previously referred to.
The testimony of Vigil is fortified by that of Tipton, who,
in lucid and cogent reasoning, supports th6 opinion which he
unequivocally expressed, that the signatures of both Armijo
and Vigil y Alarid were not genuine. The proof on this branch
of the case, in the best view which may be taken of it for the
petitioners, comes then to this: The genuineness of the signatures to the grant as a matter of opinion is supported by two
witnesses, the testimony of one 6f whom at once suggests the
doubt which arises on the face of the paper and the statements
of the other one of whom is weakened by his declarations on
other subjects which, as -will be hereafter seen, have been substantially overthrown. On the other hand, the proof of want
of genuineness as a matter of opinion is sustained by two witnesses, one of whom (Vigil) based his opinion from an intimate
official and personal relation with Governor A.rmijo which
existed at the time the alleged grant was made and prior
thereto, and the other of whom, Tipton, by a long offilcial relation with documents containing the signatures of Governor
Armijo and Secretary Vigil, had apt and valuable means of
forming a correct'and reliable opinion, and whbse testimony is
so clear and- so intelligent as to carry great weight with it.Thii state'of the proof certainly, instead of removing the doubt
suggested by the inspection and comparison, greatly confirms it.
What, then, is. the effect of the testimony of. the two witnesses (the Senas) who in the first proceeding before the surveyor general testified to their personal knowledge of the
signing of the grant?
Antonio Sena, after stating that he was prefect in June, 1846,
of the- first district of New Mexico, on being asked whether a
grant had been made, and, if he replied yes, to say by whom
and to whom, testified as follows:

UN ITED STATES v. ORTIZ.

437

Opinion of the Court.

"There was a grant made for this property in June, 1846, by
Governor Armijo to Juan Luis Ortiz; and the decree now here
as the original one, signed by Governor Armijo, in my presence,
on the 4th day of June, 1846. 1 now mean the paper in this
In the month
case marked ' Sierra Mosca grant -original.'
of June, 1846, there was no stamped government paper here,
and we had to use common paper."
Ramon Sena testified to an intimate acquaintance with the
governor and scretary, and on being asked to state whether
the signatures to the decree were genuine and whether Juan
Luis Ortiz was placed in possession, answered:
"I hfave examined the signatures of Armijo and Vigil y
Alarid, upon the document mentioned, and am satisfied that
think in the
they are both genuine. In the year 1846 -I
was requested by Juan Luis Ortiz to go
month of June -I
with him to present to Governor Armijo a petition for. land,
and the petition of said Ortiz shown me on said document.A is
the petition, and bqars the genuine signature of said Ortiz.
Governor Armijo directed a clerk (I don't remember who) to
write the decree, the same on the margin of the document
shown me as document A, which decree he then and there
signed, as did also Senor Vigil y Alarid; the governor then
handed the document to Ortiz, who requested me to proceed
with him to the alcalde at Pojoaque, to be by him placed in
possession of the land, and who did place Ortiz in possession,
executing the act in my presence, and the record of that act
borne by said document A is the act of possession I refer to,
afid the signature of Jose Dolores Trujillo, which it bears, is
his genuine signature.

.

.

.

The petition of Ortiz to the

governor was presented to him in duplicate, and when he had
acted upon them he handed one of the documents to Ortiz and
the other he handed to Senor Vigil y Alarid, to be placed
among the archives."
It is worthy of remark that it was not shown when, if dead,
the attesting witnesses to the act of possession had died, and
they were not called upon to testify before the surveyor general
or at the trial below - a circumstance which necessarily greatly
detracts from the weight of the testimony of Ramon Sena.

OCTOBER TERM 1899.
Ovinion of the Court.

Both the Senas were sons in law of the alleged grantee,
Juan Luis Ortiz. One was certainly a clerk with Dominguez
in the office of Donaciano Vigil at the very time the grant
is asserted to 'have been executed, and yet Vigil, who was
military secretary of Armijo, says that he never heard at the
time anything concerning the alleged execution of the grant.
It is suggestive of doubt, therefore, that a grant for many
thousand acres of land should have been made by Armijo to
Juan tuis Ortiz, an acquaintance of Vigif, ahd yet that the
fact should have been witnessed and known by a clerk in
Vigil's office without any information having been conveyed
to the head of that office. It is worthy also of remark that
Ramon Sena says that when the grant was executed he took
such an interest in it that he left the office where he was
employed and went to the place :where the land was situated
to witness the delivery of juridical possession made by the
justice of the peace, although, as already stated, Ramon
Sena's name does not appear upon the -act of possession as
an attesting witness thereto.
In addition to the peculiarities in the testimony of the witnesses, to which attention has been called, there is a conflict
between their statement which. the record leaves wholly
unexplained. Thus, Antonio Sena explicitly says that but
one paper was signed by Governor Armijo, and that the
decree shown him was the original grant, and he makes no
reference to any duplicate original petition being presented
to the governor, whilst :Ramon Sena affirms that duplicate
originals of the certificate were made and presented to thp
governor. and that he acted upon both.
Despite the inconsistencies in and the improbabilities-suggested by the testimony of the Senas above stated, let it be
conceded, arguendo,that their statements of personal knowledge of the execution of the grant, standing alone, would be
sufficient to overthrow the doubt engendered by the appearance of the signatures to the grant.and by the other testimony on the subject, still such admission cannot be here
controlling because of the fact that the testimony of the
Senas is shown to have been incorrect in other ,particulars

UNITED STATES v. ORTIZ.
Opinion of the Court.

so important as to deprive it of the weight which otherwise
might be attributed to it.
A direct issue was made in the pleadings in this case as
to the-official existence of the person by whom the act of
juridical possession purported to have been executed. The
petition presented for confirmation to the surveyor general
in 1872 alleged on this subject as follows:
"The said Juan ] uis Ortiz was placed in the legal possession of said grant by Jose Dolores, Trujillo, a justice of the
peace, according to the laws and customs then in force in said
republic, governing the making, granting and placing persons
or grantees in possession of lands granted to them."
In the asserted granting papers Trujillo specifically
describes himself as "justice of the peace at said place,"
(Pojoaque,) and grants the juridical possession in his capacity as. such officer. On the subject of this official, Antonio
Sena, on being showd the act of juridical possession, testified
as follows:
"Q. Who was, if you can state, the justice of the peace at
Pojoaque at that time ?
"A. It was Jose Dolores Trujillo.
"Q. Do you know the signature of Jose Dolores Trujillo?
If so, please examine the signature on the document marked
' Sierra Mosca grant - original,' purporting to be his, and state
whether it is genuine.
"A. I know the signature, and have examined the one
referred to; and it is his genuine signature. I, as prefect,
had authofity to appoint the justices of the peace in my district, and i appointed him for the precinct or demarcation of.
Pojoaque."
By necessary implication in the passage already quoted from
the testimony of iRamon Sena, he also affirms .the official character of Trujillo as an alcalde or justice of the peace.
By the Mexican law in force at the time of the making of
the alleged grant a justice of the peace exercised his authority
over a designated area known as a demarcation. Contemplating the contingency of the absence or inability from other cause
of such an appointed official to act, there was an official known

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

as a juez de paz suvknte or substitute justice of the peace.
The area embraced within the demarcation over which the
jurisdiction of the justice of the peace extended was subdivided into precincts, for which an inferior official was
appointed, known as a juez de ba2rio..
It is unnecessary to consider the difference, if any, between
the authority of these officials, a§ the question is not what was
the power of Trujillo, as an officer, but whether the proof shows
that he was an official, or at all events whether it does not give
rise to such serious doubt, on the subject, as to cause us to be
unable to sustain the alleged delivery of juridical possession.
It is clearly proven .that in 1846, at the time the alleged
granting papers purport to have been executed and long prior
theret,"there was no justice of the peace for the demarcation
of Pojoaqune as there was no such demarcation. At that time
Pojoaque was a small town within the demarcation of San
Ildefonso, that demarcation being subdivided into four blanio8,
as follows: El Rancho, Cuyamungue, Jacona and Pojoaque.
Now, the proof is that in 1845, and also in the year when
the grant was alleged to have been made (1846), the justice
of the peace of the demarcation of San Ildefonso was Jesus
Maria Serrano. This fact is established by official documents
in the record and is conceded by the defendants in error. It
is also shown by official documents, and is not denied, that in
1845 the substitute of Serrano for the demarcation of San
Ildefonso was Teodore Gonzales. Whilst there is no official
record of the reappointment of Gonzales as juez de paz

suplene for the demarcation for the year 1846, Gonzaleswho was examined before the surveyor general in 1878testified positively to that fact, and said that in 1846 he and
he alone was such officer. Another witness also, Jesus Maria
Ortiz y Baca, who was examined before the surveyor general
at the same time, but who again testified at the trial, confirmed this statement of Gonzales. The uncontradicted statements of these witnesses were corroborated by those of other
witnesses living in the vicinage of Pojoaque, who said that
they knew Serrano to have been justice of the peace, and
Gonzales to have been his substitute in June, 1846, and that

UNITED STATES v. ORTIZ.
Opinion of the Court.

although they were personally acquainted with Jose Dolores
Trujillo, they never heard of his laying any claim to any one
of these offices or exercising or pretending to exercise any of
the functions thereof.
It is impossible to deduce any reasonable conclusion favorable to the contention that Trujillo was ajuz depaz sugplente
in 1846 upon the assumption that lapse of time had led these
witnesses to confound one year with another, since the testimony shows that both in 1845 and, subsequently in 1846 no
person of the name of Trujillo held that office.
What is the state of the proof as to the juez de bario of
Pojoaque in 1846, when the alleged grant was made?
Those officials, it would seem, were recommended for appointment by the justice of the peace of the demarcation, through
the prefect of the district, to the governor of the department
for confirmation, their commissions. going to them through
the justice of the demarcation. It is shown by official evidence - which is undenied - that in 1845 the juece8 de barPiW8 for the four precincts within the demarcation of San
Ildefonso were as follows:
At El Rancho, Don Joaquin Lujan.
" Jacona, Don Jesus Lujan.
" Cuyamungue, Don Jesus Maria Ortiz.
Pojoaque, Don Miguel Trujillo.
In December, 1845, it is shown that the then prefect of the
department, Santiago Flores, addressed a letter to Serrano, as
justice of the peace of the demarcation of San Ildefonso, advising him that it had been seen fit to "re~lect" him "justice of
the peace for the coming year," and directing him: "As soon
as you receive this to appoint the precinct justices which there
ought to be within the limits of the demarcation under your
charge, reporting to this prefecture with the greatest possible
promptness as to whom you have appointed to those positions, in order that they be approved by his excellency the
governor."
No documentary proof was adduced showing that Serrano
complied with this order, although of course the assumption
would be either that the incumbents held over, or that a

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

vacancy was not allowed to exist, and the appointments were
promptly made as directed. Now, as Trujillo was not even a
juez de ba'2rio in the previous year, he could not have held
over, and the testimony excludes the implication that'he could
at that time have been appointed to fill a vacancy and acted
as such officer without the knowledge of the residents at the
place where his functions would have been exercised.
Santiag6 Flores was not the incumbent of the office of prefect on January 12, 1846, as on that date one Jose Francisco
Baca y Terrus was acting as prefect, and he appears from the
record to have continued to be prefect as late as March 27
following, his successor in the office being Antonio Sena.
Assuming then that Sena's testimony can be construed as
relating to the office of juez de barrio, it would have to be
further assumed that the appointments for the year 1846 had
not been made as commanded by the prefect and as required
by law, and that therefore either the offices had been vacant
from the close of 1845 until Sena's assumption of the prefecture in April,.1846, or that a vacancy had occurred in the
office of juez de barrio at Pojoaque, as to which, however, no
proof has been offered. True it is that counsel for the petitioners who conducted the cross-examination of the witnesses
before .the surveyor general in the proceedings initiated in
1872, testified that when the files of the former demarcation
of San Ildefonso were produced before the surveyor general
in 1878, in looking over them he saw a paper, not among the
records as produced at this trial, signed by Antonio Sena from
the prefect's office, "in which he designated or appointed Jose
Dolorez Trujillo as alcalde 8uplente, located at Pojoaque, in
the jurisdiction of San Ildefonso," the witness afterwards correcting his testimony by stating that the document which he
recollected to have seen "was dated either the very last days
of the month of December, 1845, or in the first three or four
months of the year 1846, and it was a document appointing
Jose Dolorez .Trujillo as alcalde or juez de bam'io suplente of
the jurisdiction of San Ildefonso at Pojoaque." In the brief,
however, our attention is called to the fact that there is a mistake in the record, and that the word "8uylente" in the quo-

UNITED STATES v. ORTIZ.
Opinion of the Court.

tation just referred to is erroneously placed after the words
"juez de barrio" instead of following the word "alcalde," and
that the statement should read "alcalde suplente or juez de
abarrio." Although one of the questions pending before the
surveyor general in 1876 was whether Trujillo had ever been
appointed by Sena as a justice of the peace, it is conceded this
paper was not when seen offered in evidence, nor was the
attention of the surveyor general called to it, nor was any copy
taken of it. The course pursued, it is said, having been taken
because it was deemed that the investigation before the surveyor general could have no legal force, and because it was
feared that if attention was directed to the document it might'
be abstracted. On this subject also there is testimony from
the counsel who appeared for the petitioners in the supplementary proceedings referred to, showing that when the records were then, produced he also made a critical examination
of them, and no such paper as the one desbribed was seen by
him. But no conflict need necessarily arise from the statements of the two witnesses, for it might well be that a paper
was seen by one of the witnesses at one time and was not seen
by the other at another time, because it may have been surreptitiously placed on the files and thereafter abstracted unknown
to either counsel. This is fortified by the fact that the custodian of -the archives who produced them at the supplementary
hearing, and who had the custody of them long prior to that
occasion and was familiar with them, had never heard of or
seen any such paper. If surmises were compelled, in view of
the high 1 osition of counsel, the direction which conjecture
would take may be indicated by the suggestion that Sena was
alive at the time of the supplementary hearing, and that Gaspar Ortiz not only was alive, but on one occasion was present
in an adjoining room when the testimony of witnesses was
being taken before the surveyor general, although not called
as a witness. Considering the paper as testified to, its presence would accentuate rather than assuage the grave suspicion
which the other facts to which we have alluded give rise.
Certainly, it could not have been a cotemporaneous paper, if
Sena purported to have acted as prefect in December, 1845,

OCTOBER TERME, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

and a such to have appointed Trujillo as alcalde suplente for
the year 1846, because the official documents in the record
show that on December 6, 1845, Santiago Flores and not Sena
was prefect, and that Flores was such officer prior to that date
appears in his official communication to justice of the peace
Serrano, of date December 6, 1845, showing that before that

date as prefect Flores had nominated Serrano to the governor
to serve as justice of the peace for the year 1846. Nor could
it have been genuine if the appointment was of Trujillo as
alealde suplente or juez de barrio during any time from the
beginning of December, 1845, up to the close of the month of
March, 1846, because during all that time the record shows that
Sena was not prefect. Besides, if the paper as testified to was
now here just as it is described in the testimony, it would not
help the situation, for.it would vary from the declarations in the
act of possession and from the testimony of Sena. In the paper
as to the delivery of possession,.Trujillo represents himself not
asjuez de bario, but as a justice of the peace, and Sena testified as follows: "I, as prefect, had authority to appoint the
justices of the peace in my district, and I appointed him for the
precinct or demarcation of Pojoaque." Now, as a former prefect, he was familiar with the designation of minor officials,
and would not therefore have confounded a justice of the peace
with a juez de barrio. The official correspondence of Sena
contained in the record shows that the designation "justice of
the peace" was applied by Sena to the justice of a demarcation, and the term juez de barrio he applied to a justice of a
precinct within the demarcation. And a like practice is shown
by the record to have been pursued by the successor of Sena.
And on this subject the record contains a very suggestive
fact.

It is shown that at a time subsequent to the date of the
alleged grant the demarcation of San Ildefonso was divided,
and from the territory of which it was composed there were
established two demarcations, one that of San Ildefonso and
the other that of Pojoaque, and that the records of the former
demarcation were kept at Pojoaque. This of course necessarily
gave rise to two justices of the peace, one of the demarcation

UNITED STATES v. ORTIZ.
Opinion of the Court.

of San Ildefonso and the other of Pojoaque. The new demarcations thus created, if they did not continue up to the trial
below, certainly so continued for many years. The description
of the capacity of Trujillo found in the alleged act of possession
and of his official character given by Sena, is more aptly appropriate to the demarcation of Pojoaque as it existe-d after the
the division and subsequent to the making of the alleged grant.
From this circumstance may well arise the reflection that if the
papers were not executed until at or about the thne their existence was publicly asserted in 1872, the mind of the draughtsman might inadvertently have taken into consideration the
demarcation of Pojoaque created after June, 1846, and which
had.many years obtained, and have thus overlooked the state
of things existing in 1846.
2. The impossibility of deducing from the testimony of the
two Senas proof sufficient to overcome the grave doubt as to
tlhe genuineness of the grant already engendered by the proof
referred to, is further confirmed by considering the state of
the evidence on the subject of possession.
In the petition for grant Ortiz is represented as living at
Pojoaque, and as asserting that he found himself at that time
"with land so considerably restricted as not to furnish a fair
subsistence for the support of the large family" he provided
for, and it was further represented that the tract which was
solicited possessed "the advantage of containing fertile lands
for cultivation, pasture and water sufficient, and else which is
needed for raising stock." In the proceedings instituted before the surveyor general in 1872 the land embraced within
the boundaries mentioned in the grant was marked on a sketch
filed with .the petition as aggregating about 115,200 acres,
while a survey made by the United States in 1876-asserted
by petitioners in their petition filed below to be incorrectgave the area as 33,250,39 acres. The brief for defendants in
error, however, now declares that the claim is limited to not
exceeding eleven leagues, the .claim as confirmed by the court
below. In the petition of 1872 it was averred that from the
date Ortiz was placed in possession he "and his heirs had cultivated a portion of said grant and the rest they have used in

OCTOBER TERIV, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

herding their animals and in obtaining wood." The only
proof, however, introduced by the petitioners before the surveyor general in 1872, bearing upon the occupancy or cultivation of the tract in question by Ortiz and those claiming under
him, were statements contained in the depositions of Antonio
Sena, Ramon Sena and Pablo Dominguez. These witnesses,
however, spoke only in general terms. Antonio Sena and Dominguez simply testified that Juan Luis Ortiz and his heirs had
always occupied the land and it had always, been reputed to
be theirs, while Ramon Sena thus expressed himself :
"Ortiz lived upon the land during his lifetime, and his heirs
have continued to occupy it since his death, and it has been
continuously occupied by him and them, and they have always
been th6 reputed owners of the land, and respected as such."
The evidence introduced at the trial below, however, tended
to show that the upper portion of the tract in question had been
claimed by the heirs of the father of Juan Luis Ortiz under an
alleged prior grant to their ancestor, and that portions of such
tract had been occupied and cultivated by some of said heirs,
under such claim; and a number of witnesses, relatives and
neighbors of Juan Luis Ortiz during his lifetime, testified not
merely that they had never known Juan Luis Ortiz to have
occupied or cultivated the land, but that the existence even of
the alleged grant of 1846 was not known or heard of in the
neighborhood until its presentation in 1872 to the surveyor
general for confirmation. Further, it is established, though
-Juan Luis Ortiz may have lived at Pojoaque in June, 1846, he
took up his residence at Santa Fe in the house of his son Gaspar
not very long after the date named. In fact, the widow of
Gaspar in her testimony said that Juan Luis Ortiz died about
1861 or 1862, and that he resided at her house, in Santa Fe for
about twenty to thirty years before his death. If, however, we
accept the statement of another witness, a relative named Jose
Ortiz, aged 58 years at the time he testified, Juan Luis Ortiz
died in 1859 or 1860, and lived with his son Gaspar, and clerked
in the store of that son in Santa Fe for ten or twelve years
before-he (Juan Luis Ortiz) died. It would thus appear that
Juan Luis Ortiz left Pojoaque and the vicinity of this grant for

UNITED STATES v. ORTIZ.
Opinion of the Court.

Santa Fe, if not before, at least very soon after, the date of the
asserted grant. The widow of the son Gaspar, however, did
not give any evidence tending to show any knowledge on her
part of any cultivation or use of the tract by or on behalf of
Juan Luis Ortiz, during her acquaintance with him, which must
have extended back at least to the time of her marriage to the
son, which she stated to have been in 1848. Particularly she
did not explain how he could have so occupied and cultivated
when living at her house in Santa Fe and acting as clerk for
her husband.
Despite the great, weight of the adverse testimony above
referred to, the claimants in the court below introduced no
evidence whatever as to possession, cultivation or improvement
of the alleged granted land, except that in the opening of their
case there was introduced the ex Parto testimony of the witnesses before the surveyor general on the first investigation.
3. The foregoing considerations, weighing against the validity of the asserted grant, are fortified by the fact that although
Juan Luis Ortiz and his son Gaspar lived, prior to 1854 and
subsequent thereto, in Santa Fe, where was located the office
of the surveyor general of New Mexico, and the act authorizing
the presentation of claims to that official was passed in 1854,
it was not until 1872 that the alleged grant made its public
appearance. There are also many other facts and circumstances
in the record casting the gravest doubt on the genuineness of
the alleged grant, and tending to contradict the testimony of
the Senas. To avoid too much prolixity, however, we shall not
refer to them.
All the foregoing considerations render it unnecessary to
examine the questions which are pressed in argument as
to the form of the alleged grant here relied on, the claimed
inattention to the requirements of the regulations of 1828,
and: the non-production of an expediente or of a testimonio
of title, upon which questions we refrain from expressing
any opinion whatever. Luco v. United States, 23 How. 528;
United States v. Castro, 24 How. 346; United Stateg v.
.XooreIhead, 1 Black, 227; United States v. Eni g7t, Id. 228;
Peralta v. United States, 3 Wall. 434; Tan Reynegan, v.

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Statement of the Case.

Boton, 95 U. S. 33, 35. The view we have taken.of the proof
also conclusively negates the premise of fact upon which it is
argued that there was archive evidence of the grant, (as-this
premise must rest upon the testimony of Ramon Sena alone,)
and therefore brings the case directly under the rule laid down
in United States v. Cambuston, 20 How. 59; United StatJs v.
Castro,24 How. 346; United 8tates v. .Moorehead,1 Black, 227,
and Peraltav. United States, 3 Wall. 434.
It results that it becomes unnecessary to examine the legal
questions to which at the outset attention was called, and that
The-court below erred in conforming the grant,and its decree
so doing is.reversed and the cause Pemanded to that court
with directions to enter a decree rejecting the claim and dismissing the petition; and it is so ordered.

GUARANTY

SAYINGS BANK v. BLADOW.

ERROR TO THE FOURTH JUDICIAL DISTRICT COURT FOR RICHLAND
COUNTY,

NORTH. DAKOTA.

No. 184. Submitted Nanuary 81, 1900.-Decided February 26, 1900.

The power to review and set aside the action of local land officers exists in
the general land department.

When an entry is cancelled, after due notice to the entryman, and after a
hearing in the case, it Is conclusive against him everywhere, upon all
questions of fact; and it cannot be regarded as a mere nullity, when set
up against his mortgagee, even though such mortgagee had no notice of
the proceeding to cancel the certificate.
Such an entry does not trafisfer the title to the land, but simply furnishes
primafacie evidence of an equitable claim for a patent, and the use of
the certificate for that purpose is subject to be destroyed by its official
cancellation.

THIS action was brought to foreclose a mortgage, owned by
the plaintiff in error, upon certain land in North Dakota which
the defendant in error claimed was his, and not subject to the
lien of the mortgage. It was brought in the proper state

