OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Counsel for Parties.

286 U.S.

approved, or may fail although on such examination they
might be found to deserve approval.
In the instant case, the President, to whom the bill was
presented, approved it within the time prescribed by the
Constitution, and upon that approval it became a law.
The question certified is answered in the affirmative.
Question answered " Yes."
WYOMING v. COLORADO.
No. 15, Original.

Argued December 3, 1931.-Decided May 31, 1932.

1. The decree in the earlier suit between Wyoming and Colorado,
259 U. S. 419, 496; 260 U. S. 1, defined and limited the quantity
of water which Colorado and her appropriators may divert from
the Laramie River and its tributaries' and thus withhold from
Wyoming and her appropriators. Pp. 506-508.
2. In a suit between two States to determine the relative rights of
each and of their respective citizens to divert water from an
interstate stream, private appropriators are represented by their
respective States and need not be made parties to be bound by
the decree. Pp. 508-509.
3. The bill in the present case shows that the diversions in Colorado,
complained of as violating the former decree, are not merely the
acts of private corporations and individuals not parties to this
suit, but that they are acts done by or under the authority of
Colorado; and it shows with sufficient certainty to require answer
that the decree has been violated by diversions in Colorado to the
damnage of Wyoming and her water-users. Pp. 509-510.
Motion to dismiss bill, overruled.

ON motion to dismiss an original suit brought for the
purpose of enforcing a decree in an earlier suit between
the two States.

Mr. Paul W. Lee, with whom Messrs. Clarence L. Ireland, Attorney General of Colorado, Charles Roach,
Deputy Attorney General, FredA. Harrison,Assistant Attorney General, C. D. Todd, Win. R. Kelly, George H.

WYOMING v. COLORADO.
494

Opinion of the Court.

Shaw, Donald C. McCreery, Win. A. Bryans, III, and
Lawrence R. Temple were on the brief, for the defendant
in support of the motion to dismiss.
Mr. James A. Greenwood, Attorney General of Wyoming, with whom Messrs. Richard J. Jackson, Deputy
Attorney General, and Philip S. Garbutt and George W.
Ferguson,Assistant Attorneys General, were on the brief,
for complainant in opposition to the" motion to dismiss.
MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER

delivered the opinion of

the Court.
This is a suit brought by the State of Wyoming against
the State of Colorado to enforce a decree of this Court
(259 U. S. 419, 496; 260 U. S. 1), rendered in an earlier
suit between the same States respecting their relative
rights to divert and use for irrigation the waters of the
Laramie River, a stream rising in Colorado and flowing
northward into Wyoming.
In the present bill, shortly described, Wyoming alleges
that Colorado is departing from that decree by permitting
the diversion and use within her territory of waters of
the Laramie in quantities largely in excess of those accorded to her by the decree; that these excessive diversions are preventing Wyoming from receiving and using
the amount of water which the decree accorded to her;
that Colorado, unless restrained by this Court, will continue to permit such excessive diversions and thereby will
largely or entirely deprive Wyoming of the use of the
water accorded to her in the decree; that the measuring
devices installed by Colorado to measure the waters diverted within her territory do not accurately show the
full quantities so diverted; and that Colorado refuses,
ilthough duly requested, to permit Wyoming to install
)ther suitable devices or participate in the measurements.

496

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

286 U.S.

The bill construes the decree as determining the rights
of the two States in the waters of the Laramie by according to Colorado
1. 18,000 acre feet of water per annum by reason of
the Skyline ditch appropriation;
2. 4,250 acre feet of water per annum by reason of
certain meadowland appropriations;
3. A relatively small amount of water appropriated
prior to 1902 through the Wilson Supply ditch from the
headwaters of Deadman Creek, a Colorado tributary of
the Laramie; and
4. 15,500 acre feet of water per annum by reason of the
Laramie-Poudre tunnel appropriation, making an aggregate of 37,750 acre feet per annum, apart from the Wilson
Supply ditch appropriation;
and by according to Wyoming 272,500 acre feet of water
per annum by reason of appropriations in that State.
The relief sought is the protection and quieting of
Wyoming's, rights under the decree; provision for accurately and effectively measuring and recording the
quantities of water diverted in Colorado; an injunction
restraining Colorado from continuing or making any diversion in excess of the quantities of water accorded to
her by the decree-in the event the injunction in that decree is held to relate only to diversion by reason of the
Laramie-Poudre tunnel appropriation; and such other
and full relief as may be just and equitable.
Colorado challenges the bill by a motion to dismiss in
the nature of a demurrer. The principal grounds of the
motion are, (1) that the bill proceeds upon the theory
that the prior decree determined, as against Colorado
and her water users, the full quantity of water which
rightfully may be diverted from the stream within that
State, and likewise the quantity which Wyoming and her
water users are entitled to receive and use from the stream

WYOMING v. COLORADO.
494

Opinion of the Court.

within that State-all of which, it is insisted in the
motion, is refuted by the record, opinion and decree in
the prior suit; (2) that the bill shows that the acts complained of are not acts done by Colorado, or under her
authority, but acts done by private corporations and individuals not parties to the present suit and with respect
to which no relief can be had against Colorado; and (3)
that, in any event, the bill fails to show with certainty
any violation of the decree or any damage to Wyoming
or her water users.
In the bill, Wyoming does take the position that the
decree in the earlier suit determines the rights of each
State as against the other, including their respective water
users, respecting the diversion and use of the waters of
the interstate stream-in other words, that the decree fixes
and limits the quantities of water which Colorado, including her water users, is entitled to divert and use within
that State and thus withhold from Wyoming, and likewise
determines the amount of water which Wyoming, including her water users, is entitled to receive and use within
her territory. Counsel for Colorado, recognizing that
such is the position taken in the bill, say in their brief:
"The principal purpose of the motion to dismiss is to
join issue with the contention of the complainant that
the whole matter has already been adjudicated by the
former decree. The problem so presented is a law question and it is apprehended that this should be determined
in limine." And, after indicating Colorado's purpose to
ahswer if so required, they further say: "We insist, however, that the cause will be greatly accelerated and confusion be avoided by determining at the threshold the
issues of law tendered by the complainant, and thereupon
the issues of fact should be defined, if any are considered
to stand for adjudication after passing upon the construction problem, which is the only substantial controversy

498

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

286 U.S.

in the case." Evidently therefore the construction of the
decree in the earlier suit is the chief matter in dispute.
That suit was brought by Wyoming against Colorado
and two Colorado corporations. The corporations, with
Colorado's authority and permission, were proceeding to
divert water from the Laramie in Colorado and to conduct it through a proposed tunnel into the valley of the
Cache la Poudre in Colorado, there to be used in irrigation. The project was designed to divert from the Laramie
56,000 acre feet per annum at first and 15,000 more later
on. The purpose of the suit was to prevent the proposed
diversion, and to that end the complaint set forth, among
other things, that the doctrine of appropriation for beneficial use, whereby priority in time gives priority in right,
was recognized and applied by both Colorado and
Wyoming in adjusting conflicting claims to the use of
waters of natural streams; that Wyoming and her citizens
had been for many years irrigating and thereby making
highly productive very large amounts of land along the
Laramie and its tributaries in that State through the use
of waters appropriated for that purpose from those
streams, and expenditures running into millons of dollars
had been made in the construction of, reservoirs, canals
and other appliances for the purpose of so using such
waters; that these appropriations and this use had been
maintained from a time long prior to the commencement
of the Laramie-Poudre tunnel project in Colorado; that
the date when that project was commenced was " on or
about the first day of December, 1909 "; that before that
project was commenced Colorado and certain of her citizens had appropriated water from the Laramie in
Colorado for the irrigation of lands (meadow lands) in
that State adjacent to that strean, but that the total
amount of water reasonably and beneficially used upon
such lands did not exceed 6,000 acre feet per annum;
that "no other appropriations or use of said waters of

WYOMING v. COLORADO.
494

Opinion of the Court.

said Laramie River or its tributaries had been made by the
State of Colorado or its citizens, or within the said State
of Colorado, prior to the appropriations of said waters
by your orator and its citizens as herein set forth "; that
prior to the commencement of the Laramie-Poudre tunnel
project in Colorado, Wyoming and her citizens had appropriated all of the available waters of the Laramie and
its tributaries for the actual irrigation of lands in Wyoming aggregating hundreds of thousands of acres and supporting thousands of people; that without the use of the
waters so appropriated these lands would be to a large
extent valueless and incapable of supporting any considerable population; and that the consummation of the
proposed Laramie-Poudre tunnel diversion would deprive
Wyoming and her citizens of a very large amount of water
to the use of which they were rightly entitled in virtue
of their appropriations, and would take from many of
their lands much of their value.
The prayer was for an injunction preventing the defendants and each of them from making the proposed diversion, and for general relief.
Colorado, in answering the complaint, admitted that
before the commencement of the Laramie-Poudre tunnel project certain of her citizens had appropriated water
from the Laramie and its tributaries in that State for the
irrigation of adjacent lands (meadow land), but averred
that these appropriations amounted to about 8,000 acre
feet per annum; alleged that "other appropriations of
said waters of said Laramie River and its tributaries had
been made by the State of Colorado and its citizens within
the State of Colorado prior to the appropriations of said
waters by complainant and its citizens "; averred that
the right to the proposed Laramie-Poudre tunnel diversion was initiated, by commencement of construction,
August 25, 1902, and that at the time of such initiation
there was abundant water in the Laramie to satisfy all

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

286 U.S.

prior appropriations then in existence in Colorado and
Wyoming; denied that Wyoming and her citizens had
appropriated all of the available waters of the Laramie
and its tributaries prior to that threatened diversion, and
averred that there was ample water in those streams to
supply the threatened diversion and all prior rights in
Wyoming; alleged that when the right to make that diversion was initiated, the appropriations effected or initiated in Wyoming did not exceed 50,000 acre feet; averred
that the maximum diversion which could be made through
the Larainie-Poudre tunnel project did not exceed 70,000
acre feet annually, and the topographical and physical
conditions were such that " by the system sought to be
enjoined herein, and all other available means, no more
than 90,000 acre feet annually can be diverted from said
stream and its tributaries for use upon lands lying within
the State of Colorado "; and denied that the consummation of the threatened diversion would work any injury
to Wyoming or her citizens or the lands in that State.
Thus the pleadings directly put in issue the priority
and measure of the appropriations in each State as
against those in the other State, and also the extent of
the available supply of water whereon all of the appropriations depended.
Evidence was produced by both States directly bearing
upon these issues. Colorado's evidence was addressed to
showing all appropriations in that State, not merely the
Laramie-Poudre tunnel appropriation; and that evidence
dealt in detail with the dates and measure of the
meadow-land appropriations referred to in the complaint
and answer; with the existence, date and measure of the
Skyline ditch appropriation and the Wilson Supply ditch
appropriation; and even with an appropriation from Sand
Creek, a small interstate stream nominally but not actually
a tributary of the Laramie. Colorado's state engineer gave

WYOMING v. COLORADO.
494

Opinion of the Court.

4,250 acre feet per annum as the measure of the meadowland appropriations, 18,000 acre feet per annum as the
measure of the Skyline ditch appropriation, and 2,000
acre feet per annum as the measure of the Wilson Supply
ditch appropriation. Some of her witnesses gave different measures. All who spoke of the Wilson Supply ditch
agreed that it was used to divert water from the headwaters of Deadman Creek, a Colorado tributary of the
Laramie, into Sand Creek, from which that water, or its
equivalent, was rediverted at a lower point, along with
other water from Sand Creek, through the Divide ditch
and ultimately carried into the Cache la Poudre valley.
Colorado's evidence indicated that the meadow-land, Skyline and Wilson Supply appropriations were earlier than
the Laramie-Poudre tunnel appropriation and many of
the Wyoming appropriations; and Wyoming recognized
this difference in the dates of appropriation, although
raising some question as to the quantity of water in the
earlier appropriations so recognized.
In their briefs in that suit counsel for Colorado, while
urging that the doctrine of appropriation was not applicable to a controversy between the two States, but only
to controversies between private appropriators within
the same State, recognized that the Court might hold
otherwise; and on that basis they presented what they
termed "a complete review of the evidence showing the
respective priorities of diversion from the Laramie River
in Colorado and Wyoming." In that review they listed
the aforementioned meadow-land, Skyline, Wilson Supply and Sand Creek appropriations and the proposed
Laramie-Poudre tunnel appropriation, as constituting the
"diversions and use by Colorado and her citizens," and
urged that Colorado be recognized as entitled to all of
them under the rule of priority, if that rule was given
effect.

502

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

286 U.S.

With the issues, evidence and propositions of law here
outlined submitted to it, the Court proceeded to
decision.
The influence to be given to the doctrine of appropriation was much considered, as the opinion shows, and in
disposing of that question the Court said (259 U. S. 467,
468, 470):
"The lands in both States are naturally arid and the
need for irrigation is the same in one as in the other.
The lands were settled under the same public land laws
and their settlement was induced largely by the prevailing right to divert and use water for irrigation, without
which the lands were of little value. Many of the lands
were acquired under the Desert Land Act which made
reclamation by irrigation a condition to the acquisition.
In neither State was the right to appropriate water
from this interstate stream denied. On the contrary, it
was permitted and recognized in both. The rule was
the same on both sides of the line. Some of the appropriations were made as much as fifty years ago and many
as much as twenty-five. In the circumstances we have
stated, why should not appropriations from this stream
be respected, as between the two States, according to
their several priorities, as would be done if the stream lay
wholly within either State? By what principle of right
or equity may either State proceed in disregard of prior
appropriations in the other?
"Colorado answers that this is not a suit between private appropriators. This is true, but it does not follow
that their situation and what has been accomplished by
them for their respective States can be .ignored. As respects Wyoming the welfare, prosperity and happiness
of the people of the larger part of the Laramie valley, as
also a large portion of the taxable resources of two counties, are dependent on the appropriations in that State.
-"

WYOMING v. COLORADO.
494

Opinion of the Court.

Thus the interests of the State are indissolubly linked with
the rights of the appropriators. To the extent of the appropriation and use of the water in Colorado a like situation exists there.
"We conclude that Colorado's objections to the doctrine
of appropriation as a basis of decision are not well taken,
and-that it furnishes the only basis which is consonant
with the principles of right and equity applicable to such
a controversy as this is. The cardinal rule of the doctrine
is that priority of appropriation gives superiority of right.
Each of these States applies and enforces this rule in her
own territory, and it is the one to which intending appropriators naturally would turn for guidance. The principle on which it proceeds is not less applicable to interstate streams and controversies than to others.' Both
States pronounce the rule just and reasonable as applied
to the natural conditions in that region; and to prevent
any departure from it the people of both incorporated it
into their constitutions. It originated in the customs and
usages of the people before either State came into existence, and the courts of both hold that their constitutional
provisions are to be taken as recognizing the prior usage
rather than as creating a new rule. These considerations
persuade us that its application to such a controversy as is
here presented cannot be other than eminently just and
equitable to all concerned."
Respecting the available supply of water the Court
found from the evidence that Sand Creek is nominally
but not actually a tributary of the Laramie, and therefore not to be considered; that at Woods, a gauging station near the Colorado-Wyoming stateline, the natural
flow of the Laramie after the "recognized Colorado ap' Followed and applied in Weiland v. Pioneer Irrigation Co., 259
U. S. 498, 502.

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

286 U.S.

propriations" are satisfied is such as to afford an available
supply of 170,000 acre feet per year, but not more; that
the stream receives below Woods contributions of 93,000:
acre feet from the Little Laramie and 25,000 acre feet
from smaller affluents, making the entire available supply
288,000 acre feet, apart from the quantities required to
satisfy the "recognized Colorado appropriations "; and
that
"The available supply-the 288,000 acre feet-is not
sufficient to satisfy the Wyoming appropriations depenctent thereon and also the proposed Colorado appropriation,' so it becomes necessary to consider their relative
priorities.
"There are some existing Colorado appropriations having priorities entitling them to precedence over many of
the Wyoming appropriations. These recognized Colorado
appropriations are,' 18,000 acre-feet for what is known as
the Skyline Ditch and 4,250 acre-feet for the irrigation
of that number of acres of native-hay meadows in the
Laramie valley in Colorado, the 4,250 acre-feet being what
Colorado's chief witness testifies is reasonably required
for the purpose, although a larger amount is claimed in
the State's answer. These recognized Colorado appropriations, aggregating 22,250 acre-feet, are not to be deducted from the 288,000 acre-feet, that being the available
supply after they are satisfied. Nor is Colorado's appropriation from Sand Creek to be deducted, that creek, as
we have shown, not being a tributary of the Laramie."
From the evidence bearing upon the relative priorities
of the proposed Colorado appropriation and the Wyoming
appropriations the Court found that work on the former
'The reference is to the threatened Laramie-Poudre tunnel dliersion.
'The Wilson Supply ditch appropriation should have been included
here among the recognized Colorado appropriations and was included
among them in a modified decree, as will appear later on.

WYOMING v. COLORADO.
494

505

Opinion of the Court.

was begun in the latter part of October, 1909, and was
prosecuted with such diligence that the appropriation
should be accorded a priority as of the date when the
work was begun; that some of the Wyoming appropriations were senior and others junior to that appropriation;
that those which were senior to it and dependent on the
common source of supply amounted to 272,500 acre feet
per annuro; and that
"As the available supply is 288,000 acre-feet and the
amount covered by senior appropriations in Wyoming is
272,500 acre-feet, there remain 15,500 acre-feet which
are subject to this junior appropriation in Colorado."
After stating these findings, the Court's opinion concluded:
"A decree will accordingly be entered enjoining the
defendants from diverting or taking more than 15,500
acre-feet per year from the Laramie River by means of
or through the so-called Laramie-Poudre project."
Thereupon a decree was entered declaring (259 U. S.
496):
"It is considered, ordered and decreed that the defendants, their officers, agents and servants, be, and they
are hereby, severally enjoined from diverting or taking
from the Laramie River and its tributaries in the State
of Colorado more than fifteen thousand five hundred
(15,500) acre-feet of water per annum in virtue of or
through what is designated in the pleadings and evidence
as the Laramie-Poudre Tunnel appropriation in that
State,
"Provided, that this decree shall not prejudice the
right of the State of Colorado, or of any one recognized by
her as duly entitled thereto, to continue to exercise the
right now existing and hereby recognized to divert and take
from such stream and its tributaries in that State eighteen
thousand (18,000) acre-feet of water per annum in virtue
of and through what is designated in the pleadings and

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

286 U.S.

evidence as the Skyline Ditch appropriation in that State;
nor prejudice the right of that State, or of any one recognized by her as duly entitled thereto, to continue to exercise the right now existing and hereby recognized to divert
and take from such stream and its tributaries in that State
four thousand two hundred and fifty (4,250) acre-feet of
water per annum in virtue of and through the meadowland appropriations in that State which are named in the
pleadings and evidence; nor prejudice or affect the right
of the State of Colorado or the State of Wyoming, or of
any one recognized by either State as duly entitled thereto
to continue to exercise the right to divert and use water
from Sand Creek, sometimes spoken of as a tributary of
the Laramie River, in virtue of any existing and lawful
appropriation of the waters of such creek."
Colorado and her co-defendants presented a petition
for rehearing on stated grounds, one of which was that
the Wilson Supply ditch appropriation was inadvertently
omitted, in both opinion and decree, -from the recognized
early Colorado appropriations. As -the omission was in
fact inadvertent, the decree was then so modified as to
include that appropriation among the others which Colorado was recognized as having a right to continue. 260
U. S. 1. A change in the provision respecting costs also
was sought in the petition, and was included in the modified decree. In other respects the original decree was adhered to and a rehearing denied. In that petition Colorado and her codefendants construed the decree as allotting the available supply between the two States hecording
to priority in appropriation and limiting Colorado's allotment" to 37,750 acre feet annually-Skyline 18,000,
plus Colorado meadows 4,250, plus Laramie-Poudre
15,500."
We are of opinion that the record, opinion and decree
in the prior suit, here reviewed at length, show very
plainly that the decree must be taken as determining the

WYOMING v. COLORADO.
494

Opinion of the Court.

relative rights of the two States, including their respective
citizens, to divert and use the waters of the Laramie and
its tributaries. These rights were put in issue by the
pleadings, displayed in the evidence, and considered and
resolved in the opinion. Not only so, but the question
of priority in time and right as between the appropriations in Colorado and those in Wyoming was directly
presented by the pleadings and evidence and distinctly
dealt with and resolved in the opinion.
As appears from the opinion, the Court held that the
doctrine, long recognized and enforced in both States,
whereby priority of appropriation gives superiority of
right, furnished the only equitable and right basis on
which to determine the controversy between them shown
in the pleadings and evidence.
And as further appears from the opinion, the Court
made specific findings showing the amount of water in
the available supply, its insufficiency to satisfy all asserted appropriations, the date when the proposed tunnel appropriation in Colorado was initiated, the names
and amounts of the appropriations in Colorado which
were senior to that appropriation, the amount of water
included in the Wyoming appropriations which were
senior to it, and the amount which would remain in the
supply and be subject to that appropriation after deducting what was required to satisfy the senior appropriations
in both States.
These findings were pertinent to the issues, and upon
them the Court pronounced its decree. Under a familiar
rule the facts thus determined are not open to dispute in
a subsequent suit between the same States.'
As before shown, the modified decree (1) restricts diversion under the Colorado tunnel appropriation to 15,500
acre feet, the amount which under the findings would re'Southern Pacific R. Co. v. United States, 268 U. S. 1, 48; Southern
Pacific R. Co. v. United States, 183 U. S. 519, 532.

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

286 U.S.

main in the supply after deducting the quantities included in the senior appropriations in both States; (2)
recognizes and protects the Skyline appropriation of
18,000 acre feet, it being a senior Colorado appropriation;
(3) similarly sustains the'meadow-land appropriations of
4,250 acre feet, they being senior Colorado appropriations;
(4) recognizes and protects the small Wilson Supply ditch
appropriation made prior to 1902, it being a senior
Colorado appropriation inadvertently omitted from the
list in the opinion but given its proper place by a' modification of the original decree; and (5) saves from prejudice all appropriations of the waters of Sand Creek,
found not to be a tributary of the Laramie.
The decree enjoins any diversion through the tunnel
appropriation in excess of the 15,500 acre feet accorded to.
it-and this doubtless for the reason that there had been
a declared and real purpose to divert from 56,000 to
71,000 acre feet under that appropriation. No showing
appears to have been made indicative of any occasion at
that time for a broader injunction. Of course, in the
absence of such a showing, a broader injunction was not
justified. Certainly the limited injunction which was
granted does not warrant any inference that it marks
the limits of what was intended to be decided. Such an
inference would be inconsistent with other parts of the
decree and with the opinion and the findings therein.
Construing the decree in the light of the record and
opinion, to which counsel for both States appeal, wp think
it was intended to and does define and limit the quantity
of water which Colorado and her appropriators may divert
from the interstate stream and its tributaries and thus
withhold from Wyoming and her appropriators.
But it is said that water claims other than the tunnel
appropriation could not be, and were not, affected by the
decree, because the claimants were not parties to the suit
or represented therein. In this the nature of the suit is
misconceived. It was one between States, each acting

WYOMING v. COLORADO.
494

Opinion of the Court.

as a quasi-sovereign and representative of the interests
and rights of her people in a controversy with the other.
Counsel for Colorado insisted in their brief in that suit
that the controversy was "not between private parties"
but "between the two sovereignties of Wyoming and
Colorado "; and this Cotirt in its opinion assented to that
view, but observed that the controversy was one of immediate and deep concern to both States and that the interests of each were indissolubly linked with those of her appropriators. 259 U. S. 468. Decisions in other cases also
warrant the conclusion that the water claimants in Colorado, and those in Wyoming, were represented by their
5
respective States and are bound by the decree.
The contention that the present bill shows that the
acts complained of are not acts done by Colorado, or
under her authority, but acts done by private corporations and individuals not parties to the present suit, is
shown by the bill to be untenable. It is there alleged
that Colorado in 1926 permitted a diversion -from the
Laramie through the Laramie-Poudre tunnel appropriation materially in excess of the 15,500 acre feet specified
in the decree; that in 1926, 1927 and 1928, with the
knowledge, permission and cooperation of Colorado,
diversions were made from the Laramie and its tributaries through the Skyline ditch appropriation in stated
amounts materially in excess of the 18,000 acre feet specified in the decree; that in 1926, 1927, 1928 and 1929,
with the knowledge, consent and cooperation of Colorado,
diversions were made from the Laramie and its tributaries
through the meadowland appropriations in various
amounts pronouncedly in excess of the 4,250 acre feet
'Missouri v. Illinois, 180 U. S. 208, 241; Kansas v. Colorado, 185
U. S. 125, 142; s. c., 206 U. S. 46, 49; Georgia v. Tennessee Copper Co.,

206 U. S. 230, 237; Hudson Water Co. v. McCarter;,209 U. S. 349,
355; Pennsylvania v. West Virginia, 262 U, S. 550, 591, 595; North
Dakota.v. Minnesota, 263 U. S. 365, 373; Rhode Island v. Massachusetts, 12 Pet. 657, 748; Floridav. Georgia, 17 How. 478, 494, 510, 522.

OCTOBER TERM. 1931.
Syllabus.

286 U.S.

specified in the decree; and that Colorado has permitted
other diversions from the Laramie and its tributaries in
violation of the decree through the Bob Creek and other
designated ditches, none of which were recognized or
named in the findings or decree.
The contention that the bill fails to show with certainty
any violation of the decree or any damage to Wyoming
or her water users is largely refuted by the allegations
just noticed, and is further refuted by an allegation that
annually since the entry of the decree the amount of
water in the Laramie available to Wyoming- for its water
users has been less-than the 272,500 acre feet specified in
the Court's findings, and this shortage has been caused by
the excessive and otherwise unlawful diversions before
described. It is true that some of the allegations purporting to state violations of the decree are uncertain and
indefinite, but there are many which are not subject to
this criticism, and plainly there is enough in the bill to
require that the defendant be called upon to answer it.
An order will be entered overruling the motion to dismiss, permitting Wyoming to amend her bill within thirty
days by making some of its allegations more definite and
certain, if she be so advised, and permitting Colorado to
answer the bill or amended bill, as the case may be, on or
before the first day of September, next.
Motion to Dismiss Overruled.
COLORADO v. SYMES, JUDGE OF THE DISTRICT
COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE

DISTRICT OF COLORADO,
No. 19, Original.

ET AL.

Rule to show cause issued March 21, 1932.

Return to rule submitted April 11, 1932.-Decided May 31, 1932.
1. The protection of Jud. Code, ยง 33, by which criminal proceedings
begun in state courts against revenue officers on account of their

