OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Syllabus.

286 U.S.

right to a limited liability, and that if the value of the
vessel be not accepted as the limit of the owner's liability,
the federal court is authorized to resume jurisdiction and
dispose of the whole case.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, Green, following the
remission of the cause to the state court, put in issue the
right of the owner to limited liability, by challenging the
seaworthiness of the vessel and the lack of the owner's
privity or knowledge. The matter was properly brought
before the federal district court, and that court held that
the question of the owner's right to limited liability having been raised, the cause became cognizable only in admiralty, and that its further prosecution in the state court
should be enjoined. In this the district court was right,
and the motion for leave to file the petition for writ of
mandamus must be denied.
The district court, however, gave Green until a time
fixed to withdraw, in the state court, the issue as to the
right to limited liability, in which event the restraining
order was not to issue. That court, upon being seasonably advised of the proceeding here and of our disposition of it, will, no doubt, grant further reasonable time
to allow Green to elect whether to withdraw the admiralty issue which he has raised in the state court; and the
denial of the motion is made without prejudice to such
action.
Leave denied.
ERIE RAILROAD CO. v. DUPLAK

ET AL.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
THIRD CIRCUIT.

No. 608.

Argued April 20, 1932.-Decided May 23, 1932.

A New Jersey statute denying to persons injured while walking,
standing or playing on any railroad recovery of damages from the
company held to bar recovery in an action for personal injuries

ERIE R. CO. v. DUPLAK.
440

Opinion of the Court.

sustained by a five year old boy while playing upon a railroad
bridge within the State. Following Erie R. Co. v. Hilt, 247 U. S.

97. P. 444.
53 F. (2d) 846, reversed.
CERTioR I, 284 U. S. 616, to review a judgment affirming a judgment against the railroad company in an action
in damages for personal injuries.

Messrs. Ralph E. Cooper and George S. Hobart, with
whom Mr. Duane E. Minard was on the brief, for
petitioner.
Mr. Jack Rinzler, with whom Mr. Frederic B. Scott
was on the brief, for respondents.
MR. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND

deliveied the opinion of the

Court.
Michael Duplak, a boy five years of age, sustained personal injuries, resulting in the loss of a leg, while playing
upon a railroad bridge built by petitioner over a canal in
Passaic, New Jersey. The track crossing the bridge was
used only for drilling freight cars-that is, for pulling
them into and out from sidings. At the time of the
accident the boy was resting on his right knee, looking
down into the water of the canal, with his left leg extended over the rail and under one of a string of cars
standing on the bridge. While he was in that position,
other cars were backed against the standing cars, causing them to move and run over the boy's leg. A sign
stood at one end of the bridge warning of danger and
forbidding all persons to go upon the bridge. It appeared
that from time to time boys had played upon the bridge
and had put diving boards on the lower tiers which were
used during the summer when the boys were swimming.
Naturally, they were not in use in December, when the
accident happened.

442

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

286 U.S.

In an action brought in the name of the boy and his
parents in a federal district court for New Jersey, a verdict and judgment were rendered against the petitioner,
and affirmed on appeal by the court of appeals. 53 F.
(2d) 846.
It is unnecessary to discuss the question of negligence.
The case is ruled by a statute of the State of New Jersey,
which makes it unlawful " for any person other than those
connected with or employed upon the railroad to walk
along the tracks of any railroad except when the same
shall be laid upon a public highway; if any person shall
be injured by an engine or car while walking, standing or
playing on any railroad . . . such person . . . shall not
recover therefor any damages from the company owning
or operating said railroad." Laws of New Jersey, 1903,
c. 257, ยง 55. This statute has been construed by the supreme court of the state so as to deny recovery for the
injury of a child twenty-one months old who had strayed
upon the private right of way of a railroad company at
a place not a public crossing, and who was there struck
by a car, resulting in the loss of one of his legs. The
court held that the statute barred recovery by any person who walked, stood or played upon a railroad, and
applied to all persons alike without distinction as to age
or physical or mental condition. Barcolini v. Atlantic
City & S. R. R. Co., 82 N. J. L. 107; 81 Atl. 494.
The rule of this decision, was accepted and. applied in
Erie R. Co. v. Hilt, 247 U. S. 97. That was the case of a
boy less than seven years old, who had been playing
marbles near a siding of the railroad and was injured
while endeavoring to reach a marble which had rolled
under a car standing upon the siding. The Circuit Court
of Appeals for the Third Circuit sustained a recovery.
This court reversed on the New Jersey statute, supra,

ERIE R. CO. v. DUPLAK.
440

Opinion of the Court.

as construed in the Barcolini case. An attempt is made
to distinguish the instant case, but upon comparison of
the facts here disclosed with those of the Barcolini and
Hilt cases, we are unable to find any such difference as to
constitute a substantial basis for making a distinction.
We find it unnecessary to consider whether the conduct of the railroad company amounted to an invitation
to the boy to play upon the bridge. There was certainly
no express invitation. The right of way was enclosed
by a fence, so far as that could be done without interfering with the movement of cars, and a warning sign put
up at one end of the bridge. However, the point is settled
by the state law and effectually disposed of by the Hilt
case. The facts there were before the court but are not
fully recited in the opinion. As shown by the decision of
the court of appeals (Erie R. Co. v. Hilt, 246 Fed. 800,
801), there was open ground next to the siding used as a
driveway to the station and the siding. This had been
used as a playground by ch ldren, some very young, who
were accustomed to play on the open ground, on the siding itself, and over and about the cars standing on the
rails. The practice was frequent and well known to the:
railroad. Children sometimes were driven or ordered
away, but with little effect, since there was no barrier to
keep them off. Notwithstanding that the bearing of the
facts was more strongly against the railroad than is the
case here, it was held that, in the face of the statute, there
could be no recovery. "The statute," this court said
(p. 101), "seemingly adopts in an unqualified form the
policy of the common law as understood we believe in
New Jersey, Massachusetts, and some other States, that
while a landowner cannot intentionally injure or lay
traps for a person coming upon his premises without
license, he is not bound to provide for the trespasser's

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.

444

Statement of the Case.

286 U.S.

safety from other undisclosed dangers, or to interrupt his
own otherwise lawful occupations to provide for the
chance that someone may be unlawfully there."
In support of that statement, Turess v. N. Y., Susq. &
West. R. Co., 61 N. J. L. 314; 40 Atl. 614, among other
cases, is cited. There the court rejected the contention
that the railroad company was liable for an injury to a
child who had come upon the property of the company
and been injured while playing on a turntable, which was
claimed to be an attractive nuisance. See also Kaproli
v. Central R. R. of N. J., 105 N. J. L. 225; 143 Atl. 343.
The effect of the Hilt decision is to accept the state statute, as construed by the state court, as having put a negative upon the implied invitation and attractive nuisance
doctrines; and the same statute necessarily controls here
whatever, otherwise, might be the rule.
Judgment reversed.

HARDEMAN v. WITBECK.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIFTH CIRCUIT.

No. 503. Argued April 12, 1932.-Decided May 23, 1932.

In order to avail of the preference right to a permit to prospect for
oil and gas allowed by the Leasing Act to one who has erected a
monument and posted the presciibed notice, applicant within thirty
days thereafter must not only file his application but must also
pay the application fee required by the regulations. P. 446.
51 F. (2d) 450, affirmed.
CERTIORARI,

284 U. S. 613, to review the reversal of a

decree adjudging the present petitioner to. be the beneficial owner of a prospecting permit that had been issued
to the respondent by the Land Department.

