374

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Syllabus.

SPROLES

ET AL.

V. BINFORD, SHERIFF,

286 U.S.

ET AL.

APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF TEXAS.

No. 826. Argued April 27, 28, 1932.-Decided May 23, 1932.
1. A provision of the Motor Vehicle Act of Texas limiting net loads
on trucks using the highways to 7,000 pounds was attacked upon
the ground that damage to the highways from overweight can be
prevented only by fixing a maximum gross load and providing for
its proper distribution through axles and wheels to the highway
surface, and that the limitation in question is unduly and arbitrarily
restrictive of cargo. Held:
(1) The limitation was within the broad discretion of the state
legislature and does not violate the due process clause of the
Fourteenth Amendment. P. 388.
(2) In such matters the courts are not to apply scientific precision as a criterion of constitutional powers. Id.
2. When the subject lies within the police power of the State,
debatable questions as to reasonableness are not for the courts but
for the legislature, which is entitled to form its own judgment;
and its action within its range of discretion can not be set aside
because compliance is burdensome. P. 388.
3. In the absence of national legislation governing the subject, nondiscriminating regulations of the States limiting size and weight
of vehicles on their highways may apply (if otherwise valid) to
vehicles engaged in interstate commerce; and one State can not
establish standards which would derogate from the equal power of
other States to make regulations of their own. P. 389.
4. Contracts relating to the use of highways are made subject to the
power of the State to regulate the weight of vehicles on its highways and are not protected from such regulation by the contract
clause of the Federal Constitution. P. 390.
5. The Texas statute, supra, exempts "implements of husbandry"
from the net load weight limitation. . Held that, construed as
confined to farm implements and machinery, the movements of
which are. relatively temporary and infrequent as compared with
the ordinary uses of the highways by motor trucks, the exception
is consistent with the equal protection clause of the Fourteenth
Amendment. P. 391.

SPROLES v. BINFORD.
374

Syllabus.

6. The same statute limits the length of motor vehicles to 35 feet
and of combinations of vehicles to 45 feet. Held consistent with
the equal protection clause, as a State has the right to discourage
the use of such trains or combinations on the highways. P. 392.
7. Section 5 (b) of the Texas statute, supra, provides that the general limitations as to length of vehicles and weight of load shall
not apply, and substitutes more liberal maxima, in the case of
vehicles used to transport property from point of origin "to the
nearest practicable common carrier receiving or loading point or
from a common carrier unloading point by way of the shortest
practicable route to destination," etc. Held that it is not void
for uncertainty, but refers to points at which common carriers
customarily receive shipments, of the sort that may be involved,
for transportation, or points at which common carriers customarily
unload such shipments; and the meaning of "shortest practicable
route" is sufficiently clear. P. 393.
8. The requirement of reasonable certainty in statutes affecting
individuals does not preclude the use of ordinary terms to express
ideas which find adequate interpretation in common usage and
understanding. Id.
9. A classification allowing greater length and load to motor vehicles
making short hauls to and from common carriers than to motor
trucks generally, is consistent with the equal protection clause.
P. 394.
10. The State has the right in such general motor vehicle regulations
to foster fair distribution of traffic as between the highways and
the railroads, to the end that all necessary facilities shall be maintained and that the public shall not be inconvenienced by inordinate
uses of its highways for purposes of gain. Id.
11. Also, the State may constitutionally favor transportation of Rersons on the highways over transportation of property, by applying
a load limit to trucks that is not applied to buses. P. 395.
12. The provision of the Texas Motor Vehicle Act authorizing the
Highway Department to grant special permits, for limited periods,
"for the transportation over state highways of such overweight or
oversize or overlength commodities as can not be'reasonably
dismantled " and also for super-heavy and oversize equipment for
the transportation of such commodities,-is not a delegation of legislative power, in violation of § 28, Art. I, of the Texas Constitution.
P. 397.
56 F. (2d) 189, affirmed.

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Argument for Appellants.

286 U.S.

by the plaintiffs and interveners from a decree
of the District Court of three judges dismissing a bill to
restrain the enforcement of the -Motor Vehicle Act of
Texas.
APPEAL

Messrs. Charles I. Francis, Frank H. Rawlings, and
LaRue Brown, with whom Mr. J. B. Dudley was on the
brief, for appellants.
Section (5) fixing a net load limit on trucks, is an unreasonable and arbitrary regulation, having no substantial
relation to highway protection. The following facts show
this:
(a) The provision repealed an old law which was truly
designed to protect the highways from superheavy loads.
In some instances, namely, with respect to passenger
buses, it actually permits heavier gross loads.
:(b) It places the heaviest traffic upon the cheapest
constructed portion of the state highway 'system-the
part least able to bear it. This is -done by virtue of the
privileges extended under § 7.
(c) When gross weight is restricted by the 600 pounds
per inch of tire spread upon the highway, there is left a
sufficient margin to carry greater cargoes than 7,000
pounds without any damage to the highway.
(d) Highway damage from overweight can only be
prevented by regulations which fix a maximum gross load
and provide for its proper distribution through axles and
wheels to the highway surface.
(e) This Act substantially destroys the value of approximately $150,000,000 of property and the businesses
of many citizens who have spent a lifetime in its
development.
(f) This Act is out of line with the established standards of weight throughout the United States.
(g) It is* contrary to every principle of sound engineering opinion, which teaches that the problem of high-

SPROLES v. BINFORD.
374

377

Argument for Appellants.

way damage from weight must be solved by regulating
the wheel load under a restriction of certain permissible
weight to the inch of tire spread upon the highway.
(h) While permitting the use of vehicles and combinations, of stated dimensions, it does not allow the economical use of this space, as seven thousand pounds is
far below the safe load capacity of such vehicles.
(i) It is an apparent effort to throttle the economic
advance of transportation by hampering a business
(truck transportation) for the advantage and profit of
its competitor (the railroads).
(j) An arbitrary selectior of a net load limit without
considering any other related factors does'not, as a practical matter, acccomplish any public benefit.
Under § 7 of the Act, the privilege of transporting
greater loads than seven thousand pounds is accorded to
others who operate under substantially the same conditions as appellants; and no load limit is imposed on commercial buses operating under substantially the same
conditions as appellants' trucks. This is forbidden discrimination. Smith v. Cahoon, 283 U. S. 553.
As to interstate operators, § 5 imposing the net limit, is
an undue burden upon interstate commerce, and has no
reasonable relation to the objects of the Act. If this type
of legislation be sustained, one engaged in interstate commerce must be prepared to vary his load at each state line.
This will lead to endless confusion and tremendous expense. It will virtually stop interstate transportation by
truck. States can not regulate interstate commerce in subjects national in character and which admit and require
uniformity of regulation affecting alike all the States.
Problems of Texas relating to truck transportation by
interstate operators, so far as the matter of length and
weight of vehicles are concerned, are no different from
those of other States. Hall v. DeCuir, 95 U. S. 485; De
Santo v. Pennsylvania,273 U. S. 34; Buck -v. Kuykendall,

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Argument for Appellants.

286 U.S.

267 U. S. 307; Louisville & Nashville R. Co. v. Eubank,
184 U. S. 27. A State may not in any form or under any
guise directly burden the prosecution of interstate business. International Text Book Co. v. Pigg, 217 U. S. 91.
Subdivision (f) of § 3 creates a classification which is
unreasonable, arbitrary and discriminatory, and without
any substantial relation to the purposes of the Act:
(a) In making a distinction between commodities
which are boxed or bound in containers or binders and
those not so boxed or bound; and,
(b) In making a distinction between commodities
which are boxed or bound in bales or packages of thirty
cubic feet or more in bulk and weighing more than five
hundred pounds and those boxed or bound in bales or
packages of less bulk and weight.
Trucks which are used as an incident to the business
of farming are implements of husbandry. Allred v. Engelman, 40 S. W. (2d) 945 (writ of error denied by the
Supreme Court of Texas). They make like use of the
highways to that made by appellants. This act does not
limit their size. Under the conditions named in § 7,
vehicles are not restricted to the length limitations imposed by § 3. They may be fifty-five feet in length, while
appellants' vehicles are restricted to thirty-five feet. Both
make like use of the highways. This is unconstitutional
discrimination.
By § 2 the Highway Department representatives are
granted authority to issue ninety-day permits to transport
commodities that can not be reasonably dismantled; they
have the right to authorize the use of oversized equipment in transporting such commodities. This is a delegation of authority not permissible under the Fourteenth
Amendment; or under § 28, Art. 1, of the Texas constitution. Washington v. Roberge, 278 U. S. 116. This permit clause being void, there is, therefore, an express in-

SPROLES v. BINFORD.
274

Opinion of The Court.

hibition against transporting any load over seven thousand pounds in weight without any valid provision for
moving such articles, like oil-field boilers, as can not be
reasonably dismantled. This section is so essential to the
whole tenor of the Act relating to weight and length restriction as to render such restrictions null and void.
Sections 5 and 3 are invalid under the Contract Clause
of the Constitution. Appellants can not comply with the
obligations of valid contracts entered into prior to the
passage of the Act, on account of the unreasonable length
and weight restrictions imposed by said sections.
Sections 2, 3, and 5 of the Act are inseverable. If any
one be not valid, or if they be invalid as to interstate
carriers, all must be declared void, as contrary to legislative intent. Connolly v. Union Sewer Pipe Co., 184 U.
S. 540; Williams v. Standard Oil Co., 278 U. S.235.
Messrs. John H. Crooker and R. C. Fulbright filed a
brief on behalf of W. T. Stevens, intervener-appellant.
Messrs. LaRue Brown and Charles I. Francis filed a
brief on behalf of the Tennessee Dairies, Inc., intervenerappellant.
Mr. Elbert Hooper, Assistant Attorney General of
Texas, with whom Messrs. James V. Allred, Attorney
General, T. S. Christopher, Assistant Attorney General,
J. H. Tallichet, W. M. Streetman, and A. L. Reed were
on the brief, for appellees.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE HUGHES

delivered the opinion of

the Court.
The District Court, composed of three judges, entered
a final decree dismissing the bill of complaint which
sought to restrain the enforcement of the Motor Vehicle

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

286 U.S.

Act of Texas, House Bill No. 336, Chapter 282, 42d Texas
Legislature. 56 F. (2d) 189. The decree was entered on
pleadings and proofs, and the complainants and interveners appeal. The Act was assailed upon the ground
that certain of its provisions violate the due process and
equal protection clauses of the Fourteenth Amendment,
and also the commerce and contract clauses (Art. I, § 8,
par. 3; § 10, par. 1) of the Federal Constitution. The
statute is an amendatory act and the provisions in question are found in §§ 2, 3, 5 and 7.
Section 2' prohibits the operation on any highway of
any "vehicle" as defined, exceeding stated limitations of
size, or any vehicle not constructed or equipped as required, and also the transportation of any load exceeding
the dimensions and.weights prescribed. The State Highway Department may grant permits, for ninety days, for
the transportation "of such overweight or oversize or
overlength commodities as can not be reasonably dismantled," or for the operation "of super-heavy and
oversize equipment" for the transportation of such commodities, provided that hauls under these permits shall
be made "by the shortest practicable route."
"Section 2. It shall be unlawful and constitute a misdemeanor
for any person to drive, operate or move, or for the owner to cause
or permit to be driven, operated, or moved on any highway, any
vehicle or vehicles of a size or weight exceeding the limitations stated
in this act or any vehicle or vehicles which are not constructed or
equipped as required in this act, or to transport thereon any load
or loads exceeding the dimensions or weight prescribed in this act;
provided the Department, acting directly or through its agent or
agents designated in each county shall have and is hereby granted
authority to grant permits limited to periods of ninety (90) days
or less for the transportation over State highways of such overweight
or oversize or overlength commodities as, cannot be reasonably dismantled or for the operation over State highways of super-heavy
and oversize equipment for the transportation of such oversize or
overweight or overlongth commodities as cannot be reasonably dis-

SPROLES v. BINFORD.
374

Opinion of the Court.

Section 3 2 limits the width of a vehicle, including load,
to 96 inches, the height to 122 feet, the length to 35
feet, and the length of a combination of vehicles, coupled
together, to 45 feet. It forbids the transportation as a
load, or as part of a load, of any commodity in containers
having more than 30 cubic feet and weighing more than
500 pounds, where there are more than 14 of such containers carried as a load on "any such vehicle or commantled; provided, that any haul or hauls made under such permits
shall be made by the shortest practicable route; . . ."

" Section 3. (a) No vehicle shall exceed a total outside width,
including any load thereon, of ninety-six (96) inches, except that the
width of a farm tractor shall not exceed nine (9) feet, and except
further, that the limitations as to size of vehicle stated in this section
shall not apply to implements of husbandry, including machinery used
solely for the purpose of drilling water wells, and highway building
and maintenance machinery temporarily propelled or moved upon
the public highways.
"(b) No vehicle unladen or with load shall exceed a height of
twelve feet six inches (12' 6"), including load.
"(c) No motor vehicle, commercial motor vehicle, truck-tractor,
trailer, or semi-trailer shall exceed a length of thirty-five (35) feet,
and no combination of such vehicles coupled together shall exceed a
total length of forty-five (45) feet, unless such vehicle or combination
of vehicles is operated exclusively within the limits of an incorporated
city or town.
"(d) No train or combination of vehicles or vehicle operated alone
shall carry any load extending more than three (3) feet beyond the
front thereof, nor, except as hereinbefore provided, more than four
(4) feet beyond the rear thereof.
"(e) No passenger vehicle shall carry any load extending more
than three (3) inches beyond the line of the fenders on the left side
of such vehicle, nor extending more than six (6) inches beyond the
line of the fenders on the right side thereof; provided, that the total
over-all width of such passenger vehicle shall in no event exceed
ninety-six (96) inches, including any and all such load.
"(f) Immediately upon the taking. effect of this act, it shall thereafter be unlawful for any person to operate or move, or for any
owner to cause to be operated or moved, any motor vehicle or combination thereof over the highways of this State which shall have as

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

286 U.S.

bination," no load of any such containers to be carried in
excess of 7,000 pounds. There are exempted from the
limitation as to size "implements of husbandry, including machinery used solely for the purpose of drilling
water wells, and highway building and maintenance machinery temporarily propelled or moved upon the public
highways."
Section 5 ' prohibits any " commercial motor vehicle"
(which the Act defines as one designed or used for the
transportation of property), truck-tractor, or trailer from
operating outside of an incorporated city or town with a
load exceeding 7,000 pounds " on any such vehicle or train
or combination of vehicles," and provides further that
no motor vehicle (which includes passenger buses) shall
operate outside a city or town with a greater weight than
600 pounds "per inch width of tire upon any wheel concentrated upon the surface of the highway."
a load or as a part of the load thereon any product, commodity, goods,
wares or merchandise which is contained, boxed or bound in any
container, box or binding containing more than thirty (30) cubic
feet and weighing more than five hundred (500) pounds where there
are more than fourteen (14) of such containers, boxes or bindings
being carried as a load on any such vehicle or combination thereof;
provided, that no number of any such containers, boxes or bindings
shall be carried as the whole or part of any load exceeding seven
thousand (7000) pounds on any such vehicle or. combination thereof; . . ."

Section 5. No commercial motor vehicle, truck-tractor, trailer,
or semi-trailer shall be operated on the public highway outside of the
limits of an incorporated city or town with a load exceeding seven
thousand (7000) pounds on any such vehicle or train or combination
of vehicles; and no motor vehicle, commercial motor vehicle, trucktractor, trailer or semi-trailer having a greater weight than'six
hundred (600) pounds per inch width of tire upon any wheel concentrated upon the surface of the highway shall be operated on 'the
public highways outside of the limits of an incorporated city or
town; provided, however, that the provisions of this section shall not
become effective until the first day of January, 1932."
a"

SPROLES v. BINFORD.
374

Opinion of the Court.

Section 7 4 inserts a paragraph to be known as :§ 5 (b)
of the amended statute, providing that the foregoing limitations as to length of vehicle or combination of vehicles
and weight of loads, and height of vehicle with load,
shall not apply to vehicles " when used only to transport
property from point of origin to the nearest practicable
common carrier receiving or loading point or from a common carrier unloading point, by way of the shortest practicable route to destination, provided said vehicle does
not pass a delivery or receiving point of a common carrier
equipped to transport such load," or when used to transport property "from point of origin to point of destination" when the latter is less distant from the point of
origin "than the nearest practicable common carrier receiving or loading point equipped to transport such load."
This provision is subjedt to the limitation that, except by
special permit, as provided in the Act, the length of such
vehicles shall not exceed 55 feet, or the weight of such
loads 14,000 pounds, and also that the requirement as
to the "weight per inch width of tire" shall still be
applicable.
The District Court made c( hprehensive findings.
These set forth the various interests of the complainant
and interveners (common carriers and contract earriers,
in intrastate and interstate commerce, and manufacturers
and distributors of commodities), their large investments,
the extent of their operations in highway transportation,
the character and uses of their equipment, and the losses
"Section 7. That Section 5 of said chapter be and the same is
hereby further amended by adding thereto a new section to be known
as Section 5 (b), which shall hereafter read as follows:
" Section 5 (b). The limitations imposed by this act as to length
of vehicle or combination of vehicles and weight of loads and of
height of vehicle with load shall not apply to vehicles when used
only to transport property from point of origin to the nearest prac-

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

286 U.S.

to which they would be subjected by requirements of the
statute. Other findings may be summarized as follows:
Of all the registered vehicles on the highways, including
trucks, buses and automobiles, less than four-tenths of
one per cent. have a rated carrying capacity of more than
7,000 pounds; not more that 5,500 trucks, out of a total
of 206,000, have such a capacity and are affected by the
prescribed load limit. There are approximately 200,000
miles of state and county highways in Texas and less than
20,000 miles of these are State Designated Highways, the
improvement of which represents a public investment of
more than $250,000,000. The annual maintenance cost
of State Designated Highways for the past three years
averaged $12,000,000, and that of the more than 180,000
miles of county highways "is many millions of dollars
annually." In enacting the statute, "the Legislature of
Texas found as a fact that 7,000 pounds load weight, plus
the weight of the vehicle, is the maximum load that
should be allowed to pass over the Texas highways,
taking into consideration the manner of past and present
construction, probable future construction, cost of maintenance, strength of bridges, condition of traffic, etc.," and
this finding of the Legislature is supported by the preponderance of the evidence before the court.
ticable common carrier receiving or loading point or from a common
caTrier unloading point by way of the shortest practicable route to
destination; provided, said vehicle does not pass a delivery or receiving point of a common carrier equipped to transport such load, or
when used to transport property from the point of origin to point
of destination thereof when the destination of such property is less
distant from the point of origin thereof than the nearest practicable
common carrier receiving or loading point equipped to transport such
load; provided, however, that in no event except by special permit,
as hereinabove specifically provided, shall the length of said vehicles
exceed fifty-five (55) feet or the weight of such loads exceed fourteen
thousand (14,000) pounds; and provided further, that the limitations imposed by this act upon weight per inch width of tire shall
apply to all such vehicles and loads; . . ."

SPROLES v. BINFORD.
374

Opinion of the Court.

There are highways of concrete and other rigid and
semi-rigid types of construction, and also bridges, capable
of carrying a greater load than 7,000 pounds, bit these
do not form a regularly connected system and are scattered throughout the State. There are all types of roads,
"ranging from dirt, gravel, shell, asphalt and bitulithic to
concrete and brick highways" of varying degrees of
strength; the operations of complainant and interveners,
and others similarly circumstanced, are conducted over
all these. types of highways, and bridges, except in some
instances where operations may be over a regular route.
The statute was enacted in the interest of the whole State,
and the State highway system in particular, and the operations of complainant and interveners constitute a very
small portion of the traffic which the highways bear.
The number of trucks in use in Texas has increased
300 per cent. in the last six years; official registrations
show an increase from 65,536 in 1924 to 206,527 in 1930,
not including the large increase in interstate truck traffic;
and this increase in "truck density" justifies the dimensional and weight restrictions of the statute in the interest of public safety and convenience and highway protection. In 1930, there were only 900 passenger buses
operating over the Texas highways, representing less than
.004 of one per cent. of the total number of vehicles; these
:passenger buses, while similar in many respects in construction to trucks carrying freight, are specially equipped
to haul passengers, operate under regulations of the railroad commission and under conditions wholly different
from those of trucks; that the difference between these
two types of vehicles and the number of each type, and
in iheir operation, is ample justification for legislative
classification. Excessive loads on trucks are damaging
the highways and the limitation of the net load to 7,000
pounds will cause a saving to the State in maintenance
costs. Heavily loaded trucks cause accidents and reduced
loads will result in greater safety.

386

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

286 U.S.

On account of the width of traffic lanes; vehicles of
greater width or length than that prescribed by the
statute are hazardous for passing traffic, and the hazard
will be materially reduced by a lighter load and a lesser
width and length. There are low underpasses and bridge
portals in Texas making necessary the prescribed height
limit of 12/2 feet; a low center of grav-ity makes a truck
less likely "to topple over or spill on the highway," and
for that reason less dangerous.
In order to carry on the business of farming, " implements of husbandry, plows, threshing machines, hay
pressers, etc." must be moved from one place to another.
The same is true of machinery for water-well drilling and
highway construction. The uses of the highways for this
sort of transportation are temporary only and essential
to the public welfare.
The average distance traveled by trucks carrying property from points of. origin to common carrier
receiving
points, or from common carrier unloading points to destination, is from four to eight miles; these hauls are universally short. Such operations are confined to small
areas and greatlyreduce the danger of traffic congestion
or highway injury incident to truck transportation. Those
persons coming under the exception permitted by
§ 5 (b) of the Act transport under distinctly different circumstances from complainant and interveners, who transport over fixed routes, and from other persons using the
highways. This exoeption will have the effect of diverting
from the highways generally a great deal of traffic and
thus reduce congestion and danger.
There are a large 4umber of commodities" such as boil"ers,Itransformers,-- telephone .poles, etc,, as [sic] cannot
be reasonably dismantled" and which it is necessary to
transport. The State Highway Commission in the perf6rmance of its duty of issuing special permits under .§2

SPROLES v. BINFORD.
374

387

Opinion of the Court.

acts as an administrative, fact-finding body and under a
prescribed standard.
Upon the facts found, the District Court concluded tha,
the requirements of the statute, aside from § 3, subdivision (f), if independently considered, were reasonable and
within the constitutional authority of the State.
The intervener W. T. Stevens, who is engaged in hauling uncompressed cotton, specifically complained of § 3,
subdivision (f) as creating an arbitrary and unconstitutional discrimination against him, and the District Court
made separate findings upon this point. The court found
that the customary square bale of uncompressed cotton is
of a greater size than 30 cubic feet and that the average
"square bale of uncompressed cotton, when compressed
to a standard density, is less than 30 cubic feet in size ";
and that the average square bale of cotton whether uncompressed or compressed, weighs approximately 500
pounds or more. There is the further finding that there
is no commodity commonly transported over the highways
of Texas which conforms to the desdription-" contained,
boxed or bound in any container, box or binding, containing more than 30 cubic feet and weighing more that 500
pounds "-other than square bales of uncompressed cotton. The court held that the limitation of the load to
"fourteen packages, boxes, barrels or bales" exceeding
the dimensions stated in § 3, subdivision (f), was reasonable and valid when construed in connection with the
provision of § 5 (which became effective January 1, 1932)
limiting loads to 7,000 pounds, and expressed the opinion
that 14,000 pounds of uncompressed cotton may be transported under the provisions of § 7 (§ 5b). But the
court also held that if § 3 subdivision (f), is construed
independently of the provisions of § 5, the former "has
no relation to the supposed mischiefs to be remedied and
is unreasonable and unlawfully discriminatory" in its
application to the intervener Stevens.

"1388

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

286 U.S.

As the findings of the District Court, so far as they deal
with matters of fact, are supported by the evidence, we
pass to the consideration of the questions of law raised
by appellants' contentions.
First. The limitation, by § 5,5 of the net load on trucks
to 7,000 pounds is attacked as an arbitrary regulation
depriving appellants of their property without due process
of law. Appellants urge that this provision repeals the
former law which was properly designed to protect the
highways and that the drastic requirement of the amendment is opposed to sound engineering opinion; that when
gross weight is restricted by the 600 pounds per inch of
tire spread upon the highway there is left a sufficient
margin to carry greater cargoes than 7,000 pounds without.causing damage; and that damage from overweight
.can be prevented only by regulations which fix a maximum gross load and provide for its proper distribution
through axles and wheels to the highway surface.
In exercising its authority over its highways the State
is not limited to the raising of revenue for maintenance
and reconstruction, or to regulations as to the manner in
which vehicles shall be operated, but the State may also
prevent the wear and hazards due to excessive size of
vehicles and weight of load. Limitations of size and
weight are manifestly subjects within the broad range of
legislative discretion. To make scientific precision a criterion of constitutional power would be to subject the
State to an intolerable supervision hostile to the basic
principles of our Government and wholly beyond the protection which the general clause of the Fourteenth Amendment was intended to secure. Ohio Oil Co. v. Conway,
281 U. S. 146, 159. When the subject lies within the
police power of the State, debatable questions as to reasonableness are not for the courts but for the legislature,
"See Note 3.

SPROLES v. BINFORD.
374

Opinion of the Court.

which is entitled to form its own judgment, and its action
within its range of discretion cannot be set aside because
compliance is burdensome. Standard Oil Co'. v. Marysville, 279 U. S. 582, 586; Price v. Illinois, 238 U. S. 446,
452, 453; Hadacheck v. Los Angeles, 239 U. S.394, 410;
Euclid v. Ambler Realty Co., 272 I.S. 365, 388; Zahn v.
Board of Public Works, 274 U. S.325, 328. Applying this
principle, this Court in Morris v. Duby, 274 U. S. 135,
sustained the regulation of the Highway Commission of
Oregon, imposed under legislative authority, which reduced the combined maximum weight in the case of motor
trucks from 22,000 pounds, which had been allowed under
prior regulations, to 16,500 pounds.' See, also, Carley &
Hamilton v. Snook, 281 U. S.66, 73. The requirement in
Morris v. Duby, related to the gross load limit, but we
know of no constitutional distinction which would make
such legislation appropriate and deny to the State the
authority to exercise its discretion in fixing a net load
limit. We agree with the District Court that the limitation imposed by § 5 of the statute does not violate the due
process clause.
Second. The objection to the prescribed limitation as
repugnant to the commerce clause is also without merit.
The Court, in Morris V. Duby, supra, at p. i43, answered
a similar objection to the limitation of weight by the following statement, which is applicable here: "An examination of the acts of Congress discloses no provision, express or implied, by which there is withheld from the
State its ordinary police power to conserve the highways
'In the instant case, there was evidence that the weight of an
average motor truck would be about 11,000 pounds which, added to
the 7,000 pounds allowed for net load, would make the limit of gross
weight about 18,000 pounds. Other testimony was to the effect that
a truck " usually weighs about the same as the net load," and uipon
this assumption it is said that the limit of gross weight would be
14,000 to 15.000 pounds.

390

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

286 U.S.

in 'the interest of the public and to prescribe such reasonable regulations for their gse as may be wise to prevent
injury and damage to them. In the absence of national
legislation especially covering the subject of interstate
commerce, the State may rightly prescribe uniform regulations adapted to promote safety upon its highways
and the conservation of their use, applicable alike to
vehicles moving in interstate commerce and those
of its own citizens." In the instant case, there is no
discrimination against interstate commerce and the
regulations adopted by the State, assuming them to be
otherwise valid, fall within the established principle that
in matters admitting of diversity of treatment, according to the special requirements of local conditions, the
States may act within their respective jurisdictions until
Congress sees fit to act. Minnesota Rate Cases, 230 U. S.
352, 399, 400. As this principle maintains essential local
authority to meet local needs, it follows that one State
cannot establish standards which would derogate from
the equal power of other States to make regulations of
their own. See Hendrick v. Maryland, 235 U. S. 610,
622; Kane v. New Jersey, 242 U. S. 160, 167; Michigan
Commission v. Duke, 266 U. S. 570, 576; Interstate
Busses Corp. v. Blodgett, 276 U. S. 245, 250, 251; Sprout
'. South Bend, 277 U. S. 163, 169; Continental Baking
Co. V. Woodring, ante, p. 352.
Third. The conclusion that the State had authority to
impose the limitation of § 5 for the purpose'of protecting
its highwayr meets the contention based on the contract
clause of the Federal Constitution. Contracts which relate to the use of the highways must be deemed to have
been made in contemplation of the regulatbry authbrity
of the State. With respect to the power of Congress
in the regulation of interstate commerce, this Court has
had frequent occasion to observe that it is not fettered by
the necessity of maintaining existing arrangements which

SPROLES v. BINFORD.
374

Opinion of the Court.

would conflict with the execution of its policy, as such a
restriction would place the regulation of interstate commerce in the hands of private individuals and withdraw
from the control of Congress so much of the field as they
might choose by prophetic discernment to bring within
the range of their agreements. Louisville & Nashville R.
Co. v. Mottley, 219 U. S. 467, 482; Philadelphia,B. & W.
R. Co. v. Schubert, 224 U. S. 603, 613, 614; New York
Central & Hudson River R. Co. v. Gray, 239 U. S. 583;
Continental Ins. Co. v. United States, 259 U. S. 156, 171.
The same principle applies to state regulations in the exercise of the police power. Rast v. Van Deman & Lewis,
240 U. S. 342, 363; Union Dry Goods Co. v. Georgia Public Service Comm., 248 U. S. 372, 375, 376; Producers
Transportation Co. v. Railroad Comm., 251 U. S. 228,
232; Sutter Butte Canal Co. v. Railroad Comm., 279 U. S.
125, 137, 138; Morris v. Duby, supra.
Fourth. We are thus brought to the questions raised
with respect to the discriminatory provisions of §§ 3, 5 and
7 of the Act, which are assailed as denying tQI appellants
the equal protection of the laws.
Section 3 (a)' provides that the limitations as to size
of vehicle shall not apply to "implements of husbandry,
including machinery used solely for the purpose of drilling
water wells, and highway building and maintenance machinery temporarily propelled or moved upon the public
highways." The District Court was of the opinion that
the term "implements of husbandry" has, reference to
such implements as," tractors, plows, trucks, hay presses,
etc." and that the use of the highways for this purpose,
as well as for the movement of the described machinery,
is but temporary. 56 F. (2d) at p. 190. Appellants urge
that any implement, truck or vehicle used by a farmer
is an" implement of husbandry," and hence, that under'
' See Note 2.

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

286 U.S.

this exception trucks used by farmers in conr.ection with
dairies or farms may be operated throughout Texas without any restriction as to size. We see no reason for attributing such a broad construction to the provision, if its
validity can be saved by a narrower one, and we are informed that the Court of Criminal Appeals of Texas has
held that the term "implement of husbandry" in this
statute covers only farm machinery and not trucks used
as an incident to the business of farming. Reaves v.
Texas, 50 S. W. (2d) 286. Appellants also insist that the
words "temporarily propelled or moved upon the public
highways" apply only to "highway building and maintenance machinery" and not to "implements of husbandry." If the construction by the District Court of
the term "implements of husbandry" is correct, it would
follow that the movement would be relatively temporary
and infrequent as compared with the ordinary uses of
the highways by motor trucks. We think that the exception, in the light of the context and of its apparent
purpose, instead of being arbitrary relieves the limitation
of an application which otherwise might itself be considered to be unreasonable with respect to the exceptional
movements described.
We do not find the provision of § 3 (c),' fixing approxi-mately the same limit of length for individual motor
vehicles and for a combination of such vehicles, to be open
to objection. If the State saw fit in this way to discourage the use of such trains or combinations on its
highways, we know of no constitutional reason why it
should nQt do so.
Objection is made to § 7 (§ 5b) 9 permitting an additional length of vehicles and greater loads than 7,000
'See Note 2.
'See Note 4.

SPROLES v. BINFORD.
374

Opinion of the Court.

pounds (up to 14,000 pounds) when the vehicles are
operated, as stated, between points of origin, or destination, and " common carrier receiving or loading," or unloading, points. Appellants urge that this provision, by
reason of the use of the terms "nearest practicable common carrier receiving or loading point" and "shortest
practicable route to destination," and "common carrier
receiving or loading point equipped to transport such
load," is so uncertain that it affords no standard of conduct that it is possible to know. We cannot agree with
this view. The "common carrier receiving or loading
points," and the unloading points, described, seem quite
clearly to be points at which common carriers customarily
receive shipments, of the sort that may be involved, for
transportation, or points at which common carriers customarily unload such shipments. " Shortest practicable
route " is not an expression too vague to be understood.
The requirement of reasonable certainty does not preclude the use of ordinary terms to express ideas which
find adequate interpretation in common usage and understanding. Waters-Pierce Oil Co. v. Texas (No. 1), 212
U. S. 86, 109; Nash v. United States, 229 U. S. 373, 377;
Miller v. Strahl, 239 U. S. 426, 434; Omaechevarriav.
Idaho, 246 U. S.343, 348; Hygrade Provision Co. v. Sherman, 266 U. S. 497, 502; Bandini Co. v. Superior Court,
2S4 U. S. 8, 18. The use of common experience as a
glossary is necessary to meet the practical demands of
legislation. In this instance, to insist upon carriage by
the shortest possible route, without taking the practicability of the route into consideration, would be but an
arbitrary requirement, and the expression of that which
otherwise would necessarily be implied, in order to make
the provision workable, does not destroy it.
If taken to be sufficiently definite, appellants deny that
the exception is justified. The District Court found that
it relates to hauls that are universally short, averaging

394

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

286 U.S.

from four to eight miles, and that those who come within
the exception transport under distinctly different circumstances from other persons using the highways. Appelants contest the latter statement and urge that the
former ground is insufficient. But the legislature in
making its classifications was entitled to consider frequency and character of use and to adapt its regulations
to the classes of operations, which by reason of their extensive as well as constant use of the highways brought
-about the conditions making the regulations necessary.
Continental Baking Co. v. Woodring, supra. It is said
that the exception was designed to favor transportation
by railroad as against transportation by motor trucks. If
this was the motive of.the legislature, it does not follow
that the classification as made in this case would be invalid. The State has a vital interest in the appropriate
utilization of the railroads which serve its people, as well
as in the proper maintenance of its highways as safe and
convenient facilities. The State- provides its highways
and pays for their upkeep. Its people make railroad
transportation possible by the payment of transportation
charges. It cannot be .said that the State is powerless
to protect its highways from being subjected to excessive
burdens when other means of transportation are available. The use of highways for truck transportation has
its manifest convenience, but we perceive no. constitutional ground for denying to the State the right to foster
a fair distribution of traffic to the end that 'all necessary
facilities should be maintained and that the public should
not be inconvenienced by inordinate uses of is highways
for purposes of gain. This is not a case of a denial of the
use of the highways to one class of citizens as opposed to
another, or of limitations having no appropriate relation to highway protection. It is not a case of an arbitrary discrimination between the products carried, as. in
the case of Smith v. Cahoon, 283 U. S. 553,-567. The pro-

SPROLES v. BINFORD.
374

Opinion of the Court.

vision of § 7 permitting increased loads under the stated
conditions applies' to all persons and to all products.
The discrimination is simply in favor of short hauls and
of operations which, as the District Court found, are
confined to small areas and greatly reduce the danger of
traffic congestion and highway casualties. The limitation of the length of vehicles, covered by the exception,
to 55 feet, and of the weight of their loads to 14,000
pounds, must be taken to be within the legislative discretion for the same reasons as those which were found
to sustain the general limitation of size and weight to
which the exception applies.
Another objection to classification is based on the fact
that the limitation of § 5 "o applies to "commercial motor
vehicles" which, as defined in the Act, do not include
passenger buses. The latter motor vehicles, while subject to the general limitation of " 600 pounds per inch
width of tire upon any wheel concentrated upon the surface of the highway," are not subject to a load limit. The
District Court found, as above stated, that there were only
900 passenger buses operating over the Texas highways
(representing less than .004 of one per cent. of the total
number of vehicles) and that the difference between the
two types of vehicles and number of each type and in the
conditions of operations were such as to support the
classification. Appellants press the contention that, as
admitted by the District Court, the damage to the highways is as great from a load of persons as from a load of
freight, and that the combined weight of vehicles and
load in the case of passenger buses is greater than the
combined weight of vehicles and load carrying freight
where the net load is limited to 7,000 pounds. These considerations would be controlling if there -were no other
reasonable basis for classification than the mere matter
"OSee Note 3.

OCTOBER TERM. 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

286 U.S.

of weight. But in passing upon the question of the constitutional power of the State to fashion its regulations for
the use of the highways it maintains, we cannot ignore
the fact that the State has a distinct public interest in
the transportation of persons. We do not think that it
can be said that persons and property, even with respect
to their transportation for hire, must be treated as falling
within the same category for purposes of highway regulation. The peculiar importance to the State of conveniences for the transportation of jersons in order to provide
its communities with resources both of employment and
of recreation, the special dependence of varied social and
educational interests upon freedom of intercourse through
safe and accessible facilities for such transportation, are
sufficient to support a classification of passenger traffic
as distinct from freight. There is no constitutional requirement that regulation must reach every class to which
it might be applied,-that the legislature must regulate
all or none. Silver v. Silver, 280 U. S. 117, 123. The
State is not bound to cover the whole field of possible
abuses. Patsone v. Pennsylvania, 232 U. S. 138, 144.
The question is whether the classification adopted lacks a
rational basis. Lindsley v. Natural Carbonic Gas Co.,
220 U. S. 61, 78; Keokee Coke Co. v. Taylor, 234 U. S.
224, 227; Miller v. Wilson, 236 U. S. 373, 384; Carley v.
Snook, supra; Smith v. Cahoon, supra. We cannot say
that such a basis is lacking in this instance.
In view of our conclusion that the limitation in § 5,
and the exception in § 7 (§ 5b) are valid, it is unnecessary
to consider the question which has been presented as to
the validity of § 3 (f), if it were regarded as an independent provision, that is, in case the objections to § 5 were
sustained. It appears to be conceded that under the
ruling of the District Court as to § 5 and § 7 (§ 5b),
which we have approved, motor transportation of uncompressed cotton is placed upon an equal basis with other
articles of commerce. 56 F. (2d) at pp. 191, 193.

ADAMS v. MILLS.
374

Syllabus.

Fifth. Appellants also urge that § 211 is invalid as a
delegation of power to the State Highway Department
in violation of § 28, .Art. I, of the Texas Constitution and
of'the Fourteenth Amendment of the Federal Constitution. We think that the objection is untenable. We
agree with the District Court that the authority given
to the department is not to suspend the law, but is of'a
fact-finding and administrative nature, and hence is lawfully conferred. See Trimmier v. Carlton, 116 Tex. 572,
591; 296 S. W. 1070. Under § 2, special permits may be
granted by the department, for limited periods, for the
transportation "of such overweight or oversize or overlength commodities" when it is found that they " cannot be reasonably dismantled," or for the operation of
super-heavy and oversize equipment for the transportation of commodities ascertained to be of that character.
This authorization, in our judgment, does not involve an
unconstitutional delegation of legislative power. Union
Bridge Co. v. United States, 204 U. S. 364; United States
v. Grimaud, 220 U. S. 506; Red " C " Oil Co. v. North
Carolina, 222 U. S. 380, 394; Mutual Film Corp. v. Industrial Comm., 236 U. S. 230, 245; Hampton & Co. v.
United States, 276 U. S. 394.
The decree of the District Court is affirmed.
Decree affirmed.

ADAMS

ET AL.

V. MILLS, DIRECTOR GENERAL,
ET AL.

CERTIORARI

No. 581.

TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS
SEVENTH CIRCUIT.

FOR THE

Argued April 15, 18, 1932.-Decided May 23, 1932.

1. Commission merchants to whom, as factors, shipments of livestock
were consigned for sale and who were obliged to pay unlawful unloading charges lo carriers, for which they reimbursed themselves
"See Note 1.

