OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Counsel for Petitioner.

286 U.S.

263, we hold that,the referee is a court within the meaning
of ยง 23 (b) and that, respondent's predecessor having
consented to litigate the issues presented by the petition
and answer before the referee, the latter had, jurisdictionto decide tle issues presented. See Murphy v. Hofman
Co., supr. The order of the referee, in the bankruptcy
proceeding, affirmed by the District Court, therefore adjudicated those issues between the parties and they may not
be relitigated in the present suit by their successors in
Affirmed.
irterest.
BALTIMORE & OHIO R. CO. v. BERRY.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF MISSOURI.

No. 703.

Argued April 26, 1932.-Decided May 16, 1932.

When a freight train stopped at night to await the throwing of a
switch, the caboose, occupied by the conductor and the rear brakeman, was resting on.a trestle. The conductor ordered the brakeman
to get out and go ahead, to fix a hot-box in a forward car which
had demanded attention earlier in the trip; but he did not.require
him to alight from the caboose rather than 'from any of the other
cars which were not in as dangerous a position. Taking his lantern,
the brakeman stepped from the caboose, fell into a ravine and was
hurt. It did not appear that either man knew that the caboose
was on the trestle; their opportunities of observation were the
same; and there was no evidence of any rule or practice mak'ng it'
the duty of a conductor to find safe landing-places for trainmen
before requiring themto alight. Held, that there was no evidence
of any breach of duty by the railroad company, and that if negligence was the cause of the accident, it was the negligence of the
brakeman. P. 275.
43 S. W. (2d) 782, reversed.

CERTIORARI, 285 U. S. 532, to review a judgment sus-

taining a recovery from the railroad company in an action
for personal injuries under the Federal Employers' Liability. Act.
Mr. Rudolph J. Kramer, with whom Messrs- Bruce A.
Campbell,:Morimon R. Waite, and Win. A. Egger. were
on the brief, for petitioner.

BALTIMORE & OHIO R. CO. v. BERRY. 273
272

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. John S. Marsalek, with whom Mr. Wm.H. Allen
was on the brief, for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE STONE

delivered the opinion of the Court.

In this case certiorari was granted tQ review a judgment of the Supreme Court of Missouri, 43 S.W. (2d)
782, sustaining a recovery by respondent in the Circuit Court of the City of St. Louis, under the Federal
Employers' Liability Act. Respondent, who was employed by petitioner in interstate commerce as a flagman
or rear brakeman on a freight train proceeding over its
line from Illinois to Indiana, was injured by a fall when
attempting to alight in the night-time from a caboose,
which was standing on a bridge or trestle, so narrow as
to afford no foothold to one getting off the train at that
point. The state supreme court held that the trial court
rightly overruled petitioner's demurrer to the evidence
and correctly submitted to the jury the question of the
letitioner's negligence, by its agents and servants, in
ordering or permitting the plaintiff to alight from the
caboose where it was dangerous to do so.
Respondent, an experienced railway brakeman, had
been in the employ of the petitioner in that capacity for
about nine years. For a number of years his regular run
had been over petitioner's line where he was injured.
The testimony was sharply conflicting, but the jury, if itbelieved the testimony most favorable to the respondent,
could have found the following facts. The respondent
was one of a crew of five men on a train consisting of engine, tender, forty-two cars and caboose, proceeding easterly in the direction of Xenia, Illinois. He was serving
as rear brakeman and rode in the caboose with the conductor. The train was under orders, known to the crew,
.including the respondent, to enter a passing track at
Xenia and wait there until it was passed .byanother train

274

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.Opinion of the Court.

286 U.S.

going west. About three miles west of Xenia, respondent
and the conductor observed a blazing hot box on one of
the cars; the train was stopped on the main line, and both
went forward to examine the hot box. The conductor
then sent respondent to the engine to get a bucket of
water to put out the fire, instructing him to say to the
engineer that at the next'stop, at Xenia, they would finish
any necessary work on the box. Respondent communicated this message to the engineer; the fire was extinguished and the train proceeded on its way until it halted
at Xenia. The stop there was made for the purpose of
opening the switch, so that the train could enter the passing track, with the engine from one and one-half to three
car lengths from the switch, and the caboose, at the rear
end of the train, standing on the trestle. The respondent
testified that he and the conductor were in the cupola of
the caboose when it stopped and that the conductor then
said: "Get out and go ahead and fix the hot box "; that
he knew at the time that the train was not on the passing track; that he immediately took his lantern, walked
down the caboose steps, from which he stepped into space
and fell into the ravine which was spanned by the trestle.
The state supreme court held that under the instructions given by the trial court, the jury, in order to return
a veidict for respondent, was required to find that the
petitioner was negligent both in stopping the caboose on
the trestle and in directing or permitting the respondent
to alight there. It hpld, rightly, that there was no evidence that the petitioner was negligent in stopping the
train where it did, 'but as it concluded that petitioner
negligently directed or permitted respondent to alight at
that point, it upheld the verdict as necessarily involving
a finding of such negligence on the part of the conductor.
There was no evidence that either the conductor or respondent knew that the caboose had stopped on the trestle
and, as they were together in the cupola of the caboose

BALTIMORE & OHIO R. CO. v. BERRY. 275
269

Opinion of the Court.

when the train stopped, their opportunity for knowledge,
as each knew, was the same. Hence, there is no room
for inference that the conductor was under a duty to warn
of danger known to him and not to the respondent, or
that respondent relied or had reason to rely on the conductor to give such warning. Nor was the request to
alight a command to do so regardless of any danger reasonably discoverable by respondent. The conductor did
not ask respondent to alight from the caboose rather than
from one of the forward cars standing clear of the trestle,
where it was safe, or to omit the precautions which A
reasonable man would take to ascertain, by inspection,
whether he could safely alight at the point chosen. There
was no evidence that the respondent could not have discovered the danger by use of his lantern or by other reasonable precautions, or that he in fact made any effort
to ascertain whether the place was one where he could
safely alight.
The state supreme court thought that it was the duty
of the conductor to ascertain, by inspection, whether
respondent could alight with safety, and to give warning
of the danger if he could not. But there was no evidence
of any rule or practice, nor do we know of any, from which
such a duty could be inferred. The conductor could have
no knowledge of such danger, nor was he in a position to
gain knowledge, superior to that of other trainmen, whose
duty it was to use reasonable care to ascertain, each for
himself, whether, in doing his work, he was exposing himself to peril. A duty which would require the conductor,
whenever the train was stopped and trainmen were required to alight, to inspect the place and warn of danger
where each might get off the train, would be impossible
of performance.
. There was no breach of duty on the part of the conductor in asking the respondent, in the performance of
his duty, to alight or in failing to inspect the place where

276

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Syllabus.

286 U.S.

he alighted or to warn him of the danger. If negligence
caused the injury, it was exclusively that of the respondent. Proof of negligence by the railroad was prerequisite
to recovery under the Federal Employers' Liability Act.
Reversed.

LAWRENCE

ET AL.

v. STATE TAX COMMISSION OF
MISSISSIPPI.

APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF MISSISSIPPI.

No. 580.

Argued April 18, 1932.-Decided May 16, 1932.

1. A State has constitutional power to tax its own citizens on their
net incomes though derived wholly from activities carried on by
them outside of the State. P. 281.
2. Domicile in itself establishes a basis for taxation. P. 279.
3. Whether the tax in question is called an excise by the state court
or a property tax, is not material in this case, since this Court, in
passing on its constitutionality, is concerned only with its practical
operation. P. 280.
4. A constitutional question properly raised in a-state court may not
be evaded by a decision on a non-federal ground that is unsubstantial and illusory. P. 281.
5. Where the discrimination resulting from a statute creating exemptions from A tax is inconsistent with the equal protection clause of
the Fourteenth Amendment, the constitutional rights of those not
within the exception are infringed when they are taxed and the
others are not assessed; and a refusal of the state court to decide
the constitutional question, when properly before it, is as much a
denial of those rights as an erroneous decision of it would be. P. 282.
6. A state tax on income resulting from activities outside of the State
can not be adjudged to violate the equal protection clause of the
Fourteenth Amendment merely because it applies to individuals
but not to domestic corporations, though in competition, with the
individuals, in the absence of any showing of relevant local conditions and of how the provisions in question are related to the others
by which a permissible divergency of state policy with respect to the
taxation of individuals and corporations may be effected. P. 283.
7. The fact that the State has adopted generally a policy of avoiding
double taxation of the same economic interest in corporate income,

