OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Syllabus.

286 U.S.

Although over a considerable period numerous complaints concerning the use of these premises had been
received, the agents had made no'effort to obtain a warrant
for making a search. They had abundant opportunity so
to do and to proceed in an orderly way even after the odor
had emphasized their suspicions; there was no probability
of material change in the situation during the time necessary to secure such warrant. Moreover, a short period of
watching would have prevented any such possibility.
We think, in any view, the action of the agents was inexcusable and the seizure unreasonable. The evidence
was obtained unlawfully and should have been suppressed.
See Carrollv. United States, 267 U_ S. 132; United States
v. Lefkowitz, 285 U. S. 452, and cases there cited.Prohibition officers may rely on a distinctive odor as
a physical fact indicative of possible crime; but its presence alone does not strip the owner of a building of constitutional guarantees against unreasonable search. This
record does not make it necessary for us to discuss the
rule in respect of searches in connection with an arrest.
No offender was in the garage; the action of the agents
had no immediate connection with an arrest. The purpose was to secure evidence to support some future arrest.
Reversed.
UNITED STATES v. GEORGE OTIS SMITH.
CERTIFICATE FROM THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT
OF COLUMBIA.

No. 694. Argued March 21, 22, 1932.-Decided May 2, 1932.
1. A question of construction of the Rules of the Senate becomes
a judicial question when the right of an appointee- to office, chal-

lenged in a quo warranto.proceeding, depends upon it. P. 33.
2. In deciding such a question, great weight is to be attached to the
present constructioti of the rules'by the Senate itself; but that
construction, so far, at least, as arrived at after the events in
controversy, is not conclusive on the Court. Id.

UNITED STATES v. SMITH.
6

7

Argument for the Senate.

3. Rules of the Senate provided that when a nomination to office was
confirmed, any Senator voting in the majority might move for reconsideration on the same day on which the vote was taken, or on
either of the next two days of actual executive session; that if notification of the confirmation had been sent to the President before
the expiration of the time within which the motion to reconsider
might be made, the motion to reconsider should be accompanied
by a motion to request the President to return said notification to
the Senate; and that nominations confirmed should not be returned
by the Secretary of the Senate to the President until the expiration
of the time limited for making the motion to reconsider the same,
or while the motion to reconsider was pending, "unless otherwise
ordered by the Senate." Held that when the Senate had confirmed
a nomination and on the same day had by unanimous consent
caused the President to be notified of the confirmation, and the
President thereupon had commissioned the nominee and the latter
had taken the oath and entered upon the duties of his office, the
rules did not contemplate that the Senate thereafter, within two
executive sessions following that of the confirmation, might entertain a motion to reconsider the confirmation, request return by the
President of the notification, and upon his refusal to return it, might
reconsider and reject the nomination. P. 32 et seq.
Supreme Ct. D. C., affirmed.

ON CERTIFICATION by the Court of Appeals of the District of Columbia of a question arising upon an appeal

from a judgment dismissing a petition for a writ of quo
warranto. This Court ordered up the whole record.*
Mr. 'John W. Davis, with whom Mr. Alexander J.
Groesbeck was on the brief, for the United States Senate.
Rules XXXVIII and XXXIX empowered the Senate,
at any time prior to the expiration of the next two days
of actual executive session, to entertain a motion to re*The record in this case contains the results of an elaborate exam-

ination of the instances in which the Senate reconsidered its votes
rejecting or confirming nominations, after the President had been
notified of the action reconsidered; and also of the Presidential and
Senatorial practice in such matters, as revealed by the Senate Excciitive Journal, and by records of the Executive Offices and of certain
Departments.

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Argument for the Senate.

286 U.S.

consider its vote, even though it had previously ordered
that a copy of its resolution of consent be forwarded forthwith to the President. Paragraphs 3 and 4 of Rule
XXXVIII permit no other construction. A survey of
the historical development of the rules relating to reconsideration substantiates this obvious interpretation. The
existence of the power to reconsider after notification is
further confirimed by the many instances appearing in the
Executive Journals of the Senate in which the President,
at the request of the Senate, returned resolutions both
of confirmation and rejection.
The Senate's practice of reconsidering an action previously taken dates from the very inception of our Government. Ann. of Cong. (Gales, 1834,) 1st Cong. Vol. I, pp.
20, 945, 950. While in the Parliament bf Great Britain
the practice has never existed, we find it at a quite early
date in some of the American colonies. While it is not
mentioned in the rules and orders of the Congress of the
Confederation, the record of its proceedings discloses that
it was frequently resorted to. It was at once applied in

the I-ouse of Representatives, although a rule on the subject was not adopted until January 7, 1802. The term
"reconsideration"

is found in the Constitution of the
United States, Art. I, § 7.

In the debates of the Senate held on January 5, 6, 7,
and 8, 1931, with reference to the reconsideration of the

nomination of the appellee, there was considerable discussion as to whether the Secretary of the Senate :had
in fact been authorized by the Senate to forward immediately to the President a copy of the resolution
consenting to the appointment. It was there argued by
some Senators that assent by silence to the statement
of the President pro tempore tiat, "The Senate advises
and consents to the nomination and the President will
be notified," did not constitute an order by the Senate
that the resolution should be forthwith forwarded to the

UNITED STATES v. SMITH.
6

Argument for the Senate.

President. It is not, however, the contention ofthe appellant in this case that the Secretary of the Senate exceeded his authority in forwarding the resolution. to the
President on December 22, 1930. The appellant admits
that by the usual and established practice' of the Senate
assent by silence to such a statement by the presiding
officer of the Senate constitutes an order. The Executive
Journal of December 20 shows that it was ordered "that
the foregoing resolution of confirmation [of appellee] be
forwarded to the President of the United States," and that
later it was ordered, " that-all resolutions of confirmation
this day agreed to be forwarded forthwith to the President of the United States."
But even so, paragraph 3 of Rule XXXVIII shows
that the Senate expressly contemplated a situation in
which it might reconsider a nomination although notification of its vote had by its direction already proceededto the President. The plain and simple reading of its
provisions,But if a notification of the confirmation or rejection
of a nomination shall have been sent to the President before the expiration of the time within which a motion to
reconsider may be made, the motion to reconsider shall
be accompanied by a. motion to request the President to
return such notificationto the Senate,"permits of no other construction. The historical developtnent of this provision substantiates the appellant's
position.
The President was chargeable with knowledge that, the
Senate retained its right to reconsider. He knew that the
vote advising an(I consenting to the appointment of appollee was takeun on December 20. This appears-on the
face of the resolution delivered to him by the Secetary of,
the Senate. He also knew that the Senate had recessed on
the same day until January 5, 1931. Moreover, he must
have known, or at any i'ate is legally charged with knowl-

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Argument for the Senate.

286 U.S.

edge of, the rules of the Senate; and these rules on their
face in unequivocal terms permitted the reconsideration
of a vote by the Senate within the next two days of actual
executive session.
The President must also have known that his predecessors in office had often been called upon to return resolutions transmitted to them by the Senate in order to permit the Senate to reconsider its vote, and that they did
return such resolutions. In fact, the Executive Journal
discloses that the Senate on two occasions prior to this
case requested President Hoover himself to return resolutions advising and consenting to appointments, and that
he did return them. These resolutions had been forwarded to him forthwith and prior to the expiration of
the reconsideration period.
The power of reconsideration is not lost simply because
the President has acted before the request for the return
of the notification is received. To adopt the interpretation of the Attorney General would mean the bodily incorporation into paragraph 3 of Rule XXXVIII after the
words, "when a nomination is confirmued or rejected, any
Senator voting in the majority may move for a reconsideration on the same day on which the vote was taken, or on
either of the next two days of actual executive session of
the Senate," of the words "unless the President has been
notified and has made the appointment." This renders
the rule meaningless and inconsistent. One, portion
should not be construed to annul or destroy what has been
clearly provided by another. If the rule were to be so
interpreted, it is obvious that the Senate, while a motion
to reconsider a nomination was pending, would in no case
order a notification to be sent to the President, knowing
that if the President hurriedly made the appointment it
could take no further action.upon the pending motion.
But paragraph 4 of Rule XXXVIII definitely provides
that a notification may be ordered by the Senate to be
transmitted to the President although at the time a mo-

UNITED STATES v. SMITH.
6

Argument for the Senate.

tion to reconsider is pending. If the Senate desired in
such a. case to make its vote final-that is by destroying
the possibility of reconsideration-the natural and ordinary method of doing so would be to make a motion to
table the motion to reconsider. This is explicitly provided in paragraph 3 of Rule XXXVIII.
It is most unlikely that the Senate, which by its rules.
formulated the practice of reconsideration in order the
better to reach a sound judgment in the confirmation of.
nominations submitted to it, should want to stake theloss of this valuable power upon the haste or procrastination of the President. And this is particularly so whve
we consider that the fundamental changes made in the
rules of April 6, 1867, occurred at a time when relations
between President Andrew Johnson and the Senate were
exceedingly strained.
The conclusion reached by the Attorney General seems
to suggest that the -process resolves itself into a mere
race of diligence upon the part of the President and-Senate in case of a conflict, or possible conflict, of opinion between them. So long as the President is not in receipt of
the Senate's request for a return of its notification, his
hands are free, we are told, and any action he may take
is final and irrevocable. If this is so, it can make no difference that a messenger is actually on his way with, a
request; or that the Senate has in fact voted to reconsider
before the commission is signed; or even that on such reconsideration the nomination has been rejected. Indeed,
by the same reasoning, the President, having once been
notified, might wilfully hasten the appointment notwithstanding actual knowledge on his part from unofficial
sources that the Senate had, proceeded or was proceeding
to reconsider and reverse its action. Could it be pretended that an appointment made under such circumstances was based on that advid6 and consent of the Senate which the Constitution contemplates?

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Argument for the Senate.

286 U.S.

The debates in the Senate and the very reconsideration
of the nomination of the appellee disclose that the Senate believed that its power to reconsider was not destroyed
by the immediate issue of a commission. In the construction of a parliamentary rule, the courts will respect the
meaning which the legislative body by its action has
placed upon it. State v. Savings Bank, 79 Conn. 141,
152; Witherspoon v. State ex rel. West, 138 Miss. 310,
326; State ex rel. Whitney v. Buskirk, 40 N. J. L. 463,
467; French v. Senate, 146 Cal. 604, 608; Davies v. Saginaw, 87 Mich. 439, 444; State ex rel. West v. Butler, 70
Fla. 102, 120; Smith V. Jennings, 67 S. C. 324, 328;
People ex rel. Locke v. City Council, 5 Lans. (N. Y.) 11,
14-15.
If the notification sent the President had contained an
express statement that the Senate reserved the right at
any time within the two succeeding days of executive session to reionsider its action, could the President foreclose the Senate from pursuing that course by the immediate issue of a commission? Yet just this qualification is attached by necessary implication to every such
notification.
Analysis of the process of advising and consenting to
a nomination shows the utter impossibility of applying
to the case before this Court parliamentary rules formulated either by Jefferson or by the Senate to govern the
process of legislation. The process of advising and consenting is not legislative. It may be termed quasi-executive; ih fact, it is sui generis.
Presidential and senatorial practice do not support the
contention that the power to reconsider is cut off either
by an immediate appointment or by refusal to returmi the
notification.
In adopting Rules XXXVIII and XXXIX the Senate
did not"exceed the power vested in it by Art. I, § 5, of
the Constitution. The Rules are binding on both the

UNITED STATES v. SMITH.
6

Argument for the Senate.

Senate and the Executive. United States v. Ballin, 144"
U. S. 1.
Adjudications by state courts which deal specifically
with the reconsideration of action taken by a legislative
body, have consistently applied the tests announced in
United States v. Ballin, supra. See, for instance, Smith
v. Jennings, 67 S. C. 324; State v. Savings Bank, 79 Conn.
141, 152; Crawford v. Gilchrist, 64 Fla. 41; Peo'ple v.
City Council, 5 Lans. (N. Y.) 11, 14-15; State ex rel.
West v. Butler, 70 Fla. 102, 120; People ex rel. Birch v.
Mills, 32 Hun. (N. Y.) 459, 460; Witherspoon v. State
ex rel. West, 138 Miss. 310.
The signing and delivery of a commission and the taking of an oath by the appellee can not fortify his position
or shield him from ouster. The lack of a confirmation
by the Senate as required by the Constitution could not
be cured by any action on the part of the President. People ex rel. MacMahon v. Davis, 284 Ill. 439; Witherspoon
v. State ex rel. West, 138 Miss. 310; Wood v. Cutter, 138
Mass. 149; Crawford v. Gilchrist, 64 Fla. 41; Dust v.
Oakman, 126 Mich. 717; 36 Op. Atty. Gen. 382; State
ex rel. West v: Butler, 70 Fla. 102. See also State v.
Savings Bank, 79 Conn. 141; Conger v. Gilmer, 32 Cal. 75;
Reed v. School Commission, 176 Mass. 473; Higgins v.
Curtis, 39 Kan. 283; State ex rel. Gouldey v. City Council,
63 N. J. L. 537; Stiles v Lambertville, 73 N. J. L. 90; Ashton v. Rochester, 133 N. Y. 187; Commonwealth v. Allen,
128 Mass. 308; People v. Shawver, 30 Wyo. 366; State v:
Foster, 7 N. J. L. 123; Red v. City Council, 25 Ga. 386;
Luther S. Cushing, Law & Practice of Legislative Assemblies, 9th ed., 1899, § 1265.
In a few decisions relating to the right of a legislative
body to reconsider action previously taken, there are dicta
indicating that the right may be trimmed down or lost
if notice of the action so taken has gone forward. Baker
v. Cushman, 127 Mass. 105; Wood v. Cutter, 138 Mass.

14

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Argument of the Attorney General.

286 U.S.

149; State v. Phillips, 79 Me. 506; Allen v. Morton, 94
Ark. 405; State ex rel. Childs v. Wadhams, 64 Minn. 318.
See State ex rel. Whitney v. Buskirk, 40 N. J. L. 463.
But in all of these cases, it should be noted, the legislative body had no rules definitely and explicitly conditioning the right to reconsider and indicating when its
action became final.
Attorney General Mitchell, with whom Solicitor General
Thacher, and Mr. Erwin N. Griswold were on the brief,
as amici curiae by leave of Court.
This proceeding could only be maintained in the name
of the United States and with the consent and on the relation of an official of the Department of Justice. As the
officials of the Department of Justice were already committed by an opinion of the Attorney General (36 Ops.
Atty.' Gen. 382) to a conclusion adverse to the position
taken by the Senate, consent to the institution of this proceeding was given on condition that the Senate would
employ its own counsel. This explains why officials of
the Department appear as amici curiae.
Three suggestions have been made as to the possible
purpose and effect of the Senate's action in sending notification to the President that it consented to the respondent's appointment:
First. That the President was authorized to make an
appointment forthwith but subject to its becoming ineffective through reconsideration of the nomination by
the Senate;
Second. That the consent so given, of which notification
went to the President, was a conditional and qualified
consent not representing the final conclusion of the Senate, and therefore the appointment was premature and
unauthorized;
Thifd. That the Senate's action shows unconditional
and unqualified consent to an immediate appointment,

UNITED STATES v. SMITH.
6

Argument of the Attorney General.

effective because the Senate did not recant and withdraw
its consent, and notify the President of its withdrawal,
before appointment was made.
The first position is wholly untenable. The consent
required by the Constitution is an unconditional consent
to an unconditional appointment.
Either this appointment was valid because made with
the unqualified consent of the Senate or it was void.
There is no middle ground. Any other view would allow
the Senate to encroach upon executive functions by removing an officer after his appointment under the guise
of reconsideration of his nomination and because of dissatisfaction with his official acts.
We mention this theory merely because it was suggested
in the debates on this case in the Senate. The petitioner
does not seem to rely on it, and it seems to be conceded
now that the question is whether the consent was unqualified and the appointment valid, or whether final consent was never given and the appointment was premature
and void. Approaching the case this way, there is no constitutional question presented, and we are left merely with
the question whether the Senate intended unqualifiedly
to consent and so advise the President; and that is to be
resolved by considering what the Senate did, in the light
of its rules and practices, reasonably construed.
One provision of the rules is that when a nomination
is confirmed, a motion for reconsideration may be made
within either of the next two days of actual executive
session. This must be read in connection with Paragraph
4 which provides that a nomination, confirmed or rejected
shall not be returned by the Secretary to the President
until the expiration of the time limited fpr making a
motion to reconsider or while such motion is pending
"unless otherwise ordered by the Senate." The rule in
Paragraph 4 was intended to protect and preserve the

16

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Argument of the Attorney General.

286 U.S.

power of the Senate to reconsider. It is based on the assumption that if the notification goes to the President
before the time allowed by the rule for reconsideration
has elapsed and the President makes the appointment,
the power to reconsider will be lost. The rules also expressly contemplate that before the time fixed by the
rule for reconsideration has expired or even while a.motion for reconsideration is pending, the Senate may order
an immediate notification of its consent to the-appointment to be transmitted to the President. In this case the'
Senate resolved that it consented to the appointment an(d
it unanimously resolved that the President be immediately notified that it did. consent. Its action in directing
that the President be forthwith notified without waiting
for the expiration of the time allowed by the rule for reconsideration must have had some purpose. Why order
immediate notification to be sent to the President unless
he was expected to act upon it? The only conceivable
object in expediting the notice was to make it possible
for the President to expedite the appointment, and to
enable the President immediately to fill the vacancy and
to serve the public interest by avoiding delay in the transaction of public business.
No second notice to the President is provided for by
Senate rules or practices, and if the one sent be not effective so that the President may rely on it, he never
would receive a notification of final consent. The petitioner's position is that before it has consented the Senate may send a notification that it has, and then after
it has really consented, it sends no notice. Why do a
futile thing--unanimously resolve to notify the President
forthwith and rush a special messenger to the executive
offices, if the action is not final and the President may not
proceed? Why send a, formal, expedited notification on
which the President can not rely, and then refrain from
giving him a notice of final decision of the Senate and

UNITED STATES v. SMITH.
6

Argument of the Attorney General.

compel him to cause the records of the Senate to be
searched to ascertain whether a motion for reconsideration has been made and lost, or two executive sessions
have been held without a motion for reconsideration having been made? The fallacy of the petitioner's argument is in the conclusion that the rule allowing reconsideration was an inexorable thing which the Senate itself
could not escape from. It involves also the mistaken assumption that the rule which provides for recalling
notifications from the President contemplates that in all
cases the recall will be in time and successful.
Any rule of the Senate may be suspended in a particular case by unanimous consent. Whether an order of
the Senate for immediate notification is in accordance
with the rules and requires only a majority vote or
amounts to a suspension of the rules requiring unanimous
consent is immaterial here. Acting in this case by
unanimous consent immediately to notify the President, it
did not expressly resolve to refrain from any further consideration and suspend the two executive session day rule,
but its action is susceptible of no other interpretation. A
decision to notify the President forthwith that it had
consented to the appointment necessarily implies that it
had decided then to reach a final conclusion.
The precedents indicate that no President has ever
questioned the power of the Senate to reconsider and
withdraw its consent to an, appointment if notice of the
withdrawal reaches him before the appointment is made.
The precedents tend to support the view that the question that has always been uppermost, and the subject of
particular inquiry, has been whether notice of the withdrawal of the Senate's consent reached the President before the appointment was made. We have been unable
to find a case in which the Senate actually proceeded to
reconsider and reject a nomination once confirmed, where

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Argument of the Attorney General.

286 U.S.

it clearly appeared that an appointment had been made
by the President before information reached him of the
Senate's move to withdraw its consent.
In dealing with these cases, it is evident that those
involved did not always have a clear and consistent idea
as to what constituted an appointment or whether merely
signing a commission effected it.
The cases are also complicated by the fact that the
President has the power to remove executive officers, and
although an appointment had been made before the Senate undertook to reconsider, he could, by withholding delivery of the commission and thus depriving the appointee
of an opportunity to take the oath, followed by nomination and appointment of another, in effect remove the
appointee. Such was the Plimley case.
In this connection we question the assumption by the
petitioner that an entry in the White House records
of the "date of commission" or " date commissioned"
necessarily means that the commission was signed on the
date entered. It may or may not have been. The date
so entered is the date the commission bears, but not necessarily the date the President signs it.
The petitioner's argument is based on the premise that
the Senate, though sending the notification, intended to
reserve the power to reconsider, and our position is that
it did not so intend. If our contention be accepted, ques-.
tions as to whether the President is presumed to know
the rules, or as to whether the President had a right to
rely on a notification which was false and premature, or
whether the Senate lost jurisdiction by parting with the
papers, are eliminated from the case.
The proper conclusion is that by its action in this case
the Senate intended to give its unqualified consent to an
immediate appointment, and that its action directing
notification to be sent forthwith and without waiting for
the expiration of the time fixed by the rule for reconsid-

UNITED STATES v. SMITH.
6

Argument for Smith.

eration, taken by unanimous agreement, amounted to an
abrogation in this case of the rules allowing further consideration and discloses the intention of the Senate then
and there finally to consent to the appointment and to
communicate that consent to the President for immediate action.
The situation is somewhat anomalous in that counsel
for the Senate representing the petitioner are here contending for one interpretation of the Senate's rules and
action, but the Senate itself since this case arose has
repeatedly and without any uncertainty followed a practice consistent only with our position on the law. Referring to the Congressional Record, 71st Cong., 3d Sess.,
Vol. 74, Pt. 7, pp. 6489-6490; Vol. 74, Pt. 2, pp. 17481749; Id., pp. 1937, .2066; Vol. 74, Pt. 3, p. 3393; 72d
Cong., 1st Sess., pp. 1003, 1131, 3071, 3415, 3582, 3782,
3881, 4724. These extracts from the Congressional Record show beyond question that the Senate understands
that under its present rules unanimous agreement to
notify the President of its consent to an appointment,
without waiting for the expiration of the time fixed by
the rules for reconsideration, although without any express mention of the rule about reconsideration, amounts
to a decision of the Senate to give unqualified consent to
the appointment.
Mr. George Wharton Pepper for Smith.
It has never-been doubted since Marbury v. Madison,
1 Cranch 137, and is conceded now, that where the President has nominated under the Constitution, the Senate
has advised and consented to the appointment, and a commission has been signed by the President, the appointment
is complete and the appointee is entitled to office unless
and until properly removed.
The only point in the present case left open by that
decision is whether such an appointment becomes void
where the Senate, having first ordered immediate notifica-

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Argument for Smith.

286 U.S.

tion to the President of its approval and consent, thereafter reconsiders and undertakes to reverse its action.
In that case, Chief Justice Marshall, speaking for the
Court, said in effect, that the President could not have
changed his mind after signing the commission, because,
as he held, the President could not thereafter lawfully
have forbidden the Secretary of State to deliver the commission (page 171 of opinion). Can the Senate be permitted as between itself and the President, to change its
mind in a way not permitted to the President as between
himself and his appointee?
In an attempt to meet the difficulty presented by this
question the United States is driven to argue that the
Senate in this case never really consented-that what it
did was to give a mere interlocutory consent, which never
became final because, within the period for reconsideration permitted by its own rules, the Senate reversed its
consent. According to this view it is unimportant whether
the President was or was not in fact ignorant of the Senate rules. Whether he knew it or not, the notice of confirmation immediately sent to him was merely for his,
comfort--.to give him the satisfaction of knowing that so
far the Senate was sympathetic.
As against any such theory it is submitted that the
Senate had consented; that formal notification gave
finality to the consent; and that when the President, having received such official notification and in reliance
thereon, had made the appointment, the appointee was
legally entitled to office until removed according to law.
The proposition last above stated is not only consistent
with the provisions of the Senate rules but necessarily
follows from a reasonable interpretation of them. In
other words, the Senate has not by its rules attempted to
embarrass the President or to impede the discharge of his
executive duties. For the moment, however, let it be
assumed thatthe Senate has actually attempted by its

UNITED STATES v. SMITH.
6

Argument for Smith.

rules to impose upon the Executive a period of inaction
following receipt by him of notice of confirmation, the
duration of the period of inaction being determined
solely by the pleasure of the Senate as expressed in its
rule. It is earnestly contend by the appellee that it is
beyond the power of the Senate thus to control the conduct of the Executive. To concede such a power to a
single House, or even to both Houses acting together, is
to assign to their rules the force of a general law passed
by both houses, signed by the President and binding on
every citizen. Indeed 'a concession of such power might
even involve the conclusion that a rule of the Senate or
House is of greater efficacy than an Act 6f Congress, inasmuch as the latter will not be permitted by this Court
to limit the Executive in the discharge of a constitutional
function. Let it be assumed, for example, that the Senate
rules were silent on the subject of reconsideration but
that an Act of Congress provided that the President
should not, for a six months' period, make an appointment after notice of Senate confirmation and that, within
that period, Senate consent might be withdrawn: is it to
be supposed that such an Act, passed, perhaps, over the
President's veto, vould be upheld by this Court? Would
not that be a clear case of legislative encroachment upon
the discharge of a constitutional function by the Executive? Each House under the Constitution may " determine the rules of its proceedings "-but not those of
the President or of the Supreme Court. Neither House
may "by its rules ignore constitutional restraints or violate fundamental rights, and there should be a reasonable
relation between the mode or method of proceeding established by the rule and the result which is sought to be attained." United States v. BaUin, 144 U. S. at p. 5. It
was there decided that the rule of the House of Representatives permitting the Speaker and the clerk to determine by count the presence or absence of a quorum

22

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Argument for Smith.

286 U.S.

was a valid exercise of the rule-making power. That
decision goes no further than to sustain a reasonable
exercise of the power to determine an intra-mural question of legislative procedure, the very ease covered by
the constitutional grant of power. But to invest Senate
rules with a kind of extra-territorial quality is to put it
within the power of one branch of Government to regulate the conduct of another by the device of seeming to
regulate only its own. The "consent" contemplated by
the Constitution is obviously an unconditional consent:
no Senate rule can have the effect of annexing to it a
clause of defeasance.
In order that the governmental machinery may operate
smoothly there must be a specific formality in communicating to each branch the action taken by another, in
every case where further official action is intended to follow. The President acts with utmost formality when he
notifies the Senate of a nomination. The Senate acts
with equal formality when notifying him that he may or
may not proceed with the appointment. In neither case
should there be mental or other reservations. In each
instance it is essential that the notice sent should tell the
whole story and that the recipient should be free to act
upon it as authentic and decisive. In the instant case
all necessary formality was observed
The message which the Senate sent and the President
received either has the quality and character attributed
to it by appellee or it is a purposeless and even a misleading and mischievous communication.
When we turn to the Senate rules themselves, they do
not furnish a basis for the argument that they were intended to provide for an interlocutory approval and confirmation of the President's nomination. Section 4 of
Rule XXXVIII. provides that the Secretary shall not
notify the President of a confirmation or a rejection of
his nomination until the expiration of the time limited for

UNITED STATES v. SMITH.
6

Argument for Smith.

making a motion to reconsider-that is to say, until the
next two days of actual executive session after the day
of the original consideration shall have expired-unless
otherwise ordered by the Senate. The Senate intends to
retain control of the subject-matter for that period of
time unless it orders otherwise. Consistently with § 4,
§ 3 contemplates that if the Senate has " ordered" that
the President shall be notified and if he has been notified
of the action taken, then it is necessary that he should
return the notification in order that the Senate shall have
the right to reconsider-that is to say, shall have regained
control of the subject-matter.
The rules recognize the settled parliamentary practice
as to parting with control of the transaction; and, as held
by the court below, notice of confirmation sent to the
President was intended to be not merely a purposeless
gesture, but information on which the Executive might
rely.
It is, of course, not contended by the appellant that
the Senate ever in fact called the President's attention to
the rule in regard to reconsideration or that there is any
such practice as to file with the President notice of
changes made in the Senate rules.
The reasonable, as well as the only constitutional interp~retation of these rules is that they contemplate that if
the Senate parts with control by notification sent to the
President, the Senate's power is exhausted unless and
until such control is again restored.
Furthermore, while a practice could not change the
fundamental law (as Mr. Justice Gordon in his opinion in
the court below so clearly shows) the Senate by its own
practice and acquiescence, has construed the portion of
its rules in question in accordance with our contention.
The Senate has never before contended that it had the
legal right to reconsider its approval of a President's nomination after the President had in reliance on such ap-

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Argument for Smith.

286 U.S.

proval appointed and had refused to accede to a Senate
request for return of control.
There are some cases (there is no certainty that there
are more than a very few) where the Executive after signing a commission restored control to the Senate at the
request of the latter. But the appointee in these cases
never asserted his legal rights, and all that such instances
show is that the then Executive was concerned less with
the legal rights of the appointee than with the desirability of conciliating the Senate. Probably in some cases the
President never even considered the legal and constitutional phase of the matter. In some cases the Executive
refused to restore control and thus protected the appointee, and the Senate acquiesced.
There never was a uniform presidential practice of
granting the Senate's request by restoring to the Senate
control after the appointment had been made. But even
if there had been, such a practice could not affect the
appointee's legal rights.
It is not necessary to discuss whether unanimous consent is necessary to the abrogation or suspension by the
Senate of its own rules. It might be pointed out that
there is in substance no difference between a unanimous
suspension of the rules followed by a vote to notify the
President at once, and simply a unanimous vote to notify
the President at once. But the point is that there was
no need of unanimous consent to suspension because no
suspension of the rules was involved. The rules expressly
provide that the Senate may order the immediate sending of notice, and this was done. It is true, and of course
the Senate knew, that after sending the notice, the Senate
could ask the President to restore the subject-matter to
its control, and that, if he were in a position to acquiesce
and did acquiesce, they could then reverse their previous
action. But where the matter has passed out of the control of the President he has no power to restore such con-

UNITED STATES v. SMITH.
6

Argument for Smith.

trol to the Senate. The only way to get the appointee
out of office is by removal. The Senate knew and intended this. The Senate at the time of directing immediate notice to be sent to the President, was content with
the possibility bf regaining control if it wanted to change
its mnd. At the time it had no thought of so doing.
It is entirely unnecessary to consider a supposititious
case of sharp practice-a case in which the President,
having received official notice from the Senate of confirmation of one of his nominations, but having likewise
received actual notice that such consent had in the meantime been reversed, immediately signs and causes to be
sealed a commission to his appointee and delivers it in
order to oiftwit the Senate. Possibly the result would
be different there, but at any rate that is not this case.
In conclusion and to sum up, the only point left open
by the decision in Marbury v. .Mlladison is this: whether
the Senate can annul an appointment after it has directed
its officer to send notice'of confirmation to the President
and after he (in ignorance of a Senate rule reserving the
right to reconsider within a certain period or, if knowing
of the rule, yet supposing that the Senate, as the rule
itself permitted, had voted to forego this period of reconsideration) has relied on the official notice and appointed
his nominee to office. It is submitted that the Constitution permits the Senate no such reserved control; that
the rules of the Senate have never contemplated, and the
Senate by its own practice has never intimated that it
claimed any such reserved control; that even if the rules
clearly expressed any such intention, such rules are made
only for the regulation of Senate procedure and have not
the effect of a law which operates upon all alike whether
they know of its terms or not; that no question of the
abrogation of the rules of the Senate (by unanimous consent or otherwise) is involved in this case; that the Government could not function if the President were not en-

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

286 U.S.

titled to rely upon official notice of confirmation of his
nomination received from the Senate; and that the appellee was validly appointed to his office under the Constitution and laws of the United States and can be deprived thereof only by removal according to law.*
MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIs

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This petition, in the name of the United States, for a
writ of quo warranto was filed in the Supreme Court of
the District of Columbia, on relation of the district attorney, in deference to the desire of the United States
Senate to have presented for judicial decision the question
whether George Otis Smith holds lawfully the office of
member and chairman of the Federal Power Commission.
The case was heard upon the petition and answer. On
December 22, 1931, the trial court entered judgment
denying the petition. An appeal was promptly taken
to the Court of Appeals of the District. That court
*Attached to the brief are appendices giving

(A) A review of decisions of state courts dealing with reconsideration by legislative bodies, citing: State v. Barbour, 53 Conn. 76;
State v. Starr, 78 Conn. 638; State v. Phillips, 79 Maine 506; State
v. Miller, 62 Oh. St. 436; State v. Tyrrell, 158 Wis. 425; The Justices
v. Clark, 1 T. B. Monroe (Ky.) 82; United States v. LeBaron,
19 How. 73; Conger v. Gilmer, 32 Cal. 75; Lane v. Commonwealth,
103 Pa. 481; Harringtonv. Pardee,.1 Cal. App. 278; Allen v. Morton,
94 Ark. 405; Jefferson's Manual, § XLIII, 2d par.; People ex rel.
McMahon v. Davis, 284 Ill. 439; Witherspoon v. State, 138 Miss.
310; Attorney General v. Oakman,. 126 Mich. 717,; Wood v. Cutter,
138 Mass. 149; Crawford v. Gilchrist, 64 Fla. 41; Matter of Fitzgerald, 88 App. Div. (N. Y.) 434; State ex rel. Whitney v. Van
Buskirk, 40 N. J. L. 463.
(B) A review of the history and interpretation of the standing
rules of the Senate dealing with reconsideration of confirmation or
rejection of nominations.
(C) A review of Senate, Departmental and Presidential practice
in the light of the reconsideration rules of the United States Senate.

UNITED STATES v. SMITH.
Opinion of the Court.

6

certified a question pursuant to § 239 of the Judicial
Code. This Court granted joint motions of the parties
to bring up the entire record and to advance the cause.
On December 3, 1930, the President of the United
States transmitted to the Senate the nomination of George
Otis Smith to be a member of the Federal Power Conmission for a term expiring June 22, 1935. On December 20,
1930, the Senate, in open executive session, by a vote of
38 to. 22, with 35 Senators not voting, advised and consented to the appointment of Smith to the office for which
he had been nominated. On'the same day, the Senate
ordered that the resolution of confirmation be forwarded
to the President.' This order was entered late i the evening of Saturday, December 20th; and still later on the
same day the Senate adjourned to January 5, 1931. On
Monday, December 22, 1930, the Secretary of the Senate
notified the President of the United States of the resolution of confirmation, the communication being delivered
by the official messenger of the Senate.2 Subsequently,
1 The

terms of the resolution were: "Resolved, That the Senate

advise and consent to the appointment of the above named person
to the office named agreeably to his said nomination." Upon the
announcement of the vote, the President pro tempore stated: "The
Senate advises and consents to the nomination and the President
will be notified." No objection being made, or further proceedings
having been had, in the Senate with reference to said consent or the
notification thereof, the following order was entered by the Secretary
of the Senate in usual course upon the Executive Journal of the Senate
for December 20, 1930: "Ordered, that the foregoing resolution of confirmation be forwarded to the President of the United States."
Further action being had in Executive Session on the same day
with reference to other nominations, there was entered on the Journal
for December 20, 1930: " Ordered, that the foregoing resolution of
confirmation this day agreed to be forwarded forthwith to the President of the United States."
executive session,
2 The terms of the communication were: "In
Senate of the United States, Saturday, December 20, 1930. Resolved,

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

286 U.S.

and on the same day, the President signed and, through
the Department of State, delivered to Smith a commission
purporting to appoint him a member of the Federal Power
Commission and designating him as chairman thereof.
Smith then, on the same day, took the oath of office and
undertook forthwith to discharge the duties of a commissioner.
On January 5, 1931, which was the next day of actual
executive session of the Senate after the date of confirmation, a motion to reconsider the nomination of Smith was
duly made by a Senator who had voted to confirm it, and
also a motion to request the President to return the resolution of confirmation which had passed into his possession. Both motions were adopted and the President was
notified in due course. On January 10, 1931, the President informed the Senate by a message in writing that
he had theretofore appointed Smith to the office in question, after receiving formal -notice of confirmation, and
that, for this reason, he refused to accede to the Senate's
request.'
that the Senate advise and consent to the appointment of the following-named persons to the offices named agreeably to their respective
nominations:
Federal Power Commission
George Otis Smith, to be a member for the term expiring June 22,
1935.
Frank R. McNinch, to be a member for the term expiring June 22,
1934.
Marcel Garsaud, to be a member for the term expiring June 22, 1932.

Attest:

(Signed)

EDWIN

P.

THAYER,

Secretary."
message of the President read as follows:
To the Senate of the United States:
I am in receipt of the resolution of the Senate dated January 5,
1931"That the President of the United States be respectfully requested
to return to the Senate the resolution advising and 'onsenting to the
8 The

UNITED STATES v. SMITH.
6

Opinion of the Court.

Thereafter, a motion was made and adopted in the
Senate directing the Executive Clerk to place on the Executive Calendar the "name and nomination of the said
George Otis Smith.' 'Subsequently, on February 4, 1931,
the President pro tempore of the Senate put to the Senate'
the question of advice and consent to the appointment of
Smith, and a majority of the Senators voted in the nega•tive. Notification of this action was sent to the President.
On the following day, February 5, 1931, the Senate by
resolution requested the district attorney of the District
of Columbia to institute in its Supreme Court proceedings
in quo warranto to test Smith's right to hold office; and,
appointment of George Otis Smith to be a member of the Federal
Power Commission, which was agreed to on Saturday, December 20,
1930."
. I have similar resolutions in respect to the appointment of Messrs.
Claude L. Draper and Col. Marcel Garsaud.
On December 20, 1930, I Teceived the usual attested resolution of
the S'mate, -signed by the Secretary of the Senate, as follows:
"Resolved, That the Senate advise and consent to the appointment
of the following-named person to the office named agreeably to his
nomination:
Federal Power Commission
George Otis Smith, to be a member of the Federal Power Commission."
I have similar resolutions in respect to Colonel Garsaud and Mr.
Draper.
I am advised that these appointments were constitutionally made,
with the consent of the Senate formally gommunicated to me, and
that the return of the documents by me and reconsideration by the
Senate would be ineffective to disturb the appointees in .their offices.
I cannot admit the power in the Senate to encroach upon the Executive functions by removal of a duly appointed.*'executive officer under
the guise of reconsideration of his -nomination.
I. regret that I must refuse to accede to the requests,
HERBERT

The White House, January 10, 1931.

HoovER.

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

286 U.S.

pursuant to that request, this proceeding was filed on
May4, 1931.. As the officials of the Department of Justice
were committed by an opinion of the Attorney General
(36 Op. Atty. Gen. 382) to a conclusion adverse to the
position taken by the Senate, consent to the institution
of the proceeding. was conditioned upon the Senate's employing its own counsel and upon the understanding that
officials of the Department of Justice would not support
the petitioner.
No fact is in dispute. The sole question presented is
one of law. Did the Senate have the power, on the next
day of executive session, to reconsider its vote advising
and consenting to the appointment of George Otis Smith,
although meanwhile, pursuant to its order, the resolution
.of.consent had been communicated to the President, and
thereupon, the commission had issued, Smith had taken
the oath of office and had entered upon the discharge of
his duties? The answer to this question depends primarily
upon the applicable Senate rules. These rules are numbers XXXVIII and XXXIX.' The pivotal provisions are
paragraphs 3 and 4 of Rule XXXVIII, which read:
"3. When a nomination is confirmed or i'ejected, any
Senator voting in the majority may move for a reconsideration on the same day on which the vote was taken, or on
either of the next two days of actual executive session of
'Rule XXXIX provides: "The President of the United States
shall, from time'to time, be furnished with an authenticated transcript
of the executive records of the Senate, but. no further extract from
th3 Executive Journal shall be furnished by the Secretary, except by
special order of the Senate; and no paper except original treaties
transmitted to the £Senate by the President of the United States,
and finally acted upon by the Senate, shall be delivered from the office
of /.he Secretary without an order of the Senate for that purpose.".
The transcript of executive records relating to action by the Senate
on nominations, furnished to the President under this rule, appears to
consist only of copies of resolutions of confirmation or rejection.

UNITED STATES v. SMITH.
6

Opinion of the Court.

the Senate; but if a notification of the confirmation or
rejection of a nomination shall have been sent to the
President before the expiration of the time within which
a motion to reconsider may be made, the motion to reconsider shall be accompanied by a motion to request the
President to return such notification to the Senate. Any
motion to reconsider the vote. on a nomination may be
laid on the table without prejudice to the nomination, and
shall be a final disposition of such motion."
"4. Nominations confirmed or rejected by the, Senate
shall not be returned by the Secretary to the President
until the expiration of the time limited for making a motion to reconsider the same, or while a motion to reconsider
is pending, unless otherwise ordered by the Senate."
The contention on behalf of the Senate is that it did
not advise and consent to the appointment of George Otis
Smith to the office of member of the Federal Power Commission, because, by action duly and regularly taken upon
reconsideration in accordance with its Standing Rules, it
refused such consent, and gave to the President formal
notice of its refusal.
The argument is that the action of the Senate in assenting to the nomination of Smith on December 20, 1930,
and ordering that the President be notified, was taken subject to its rules and had only the effect provided for by
them; that the rules empowered the Senate, in plain and
unambiguous terms, to entertain, at any time prior to the
expiration of the next two days of .actual executive session, a motion to reconsider its vote advising and consenting to the appointment, although it had previously ordered a copy of the resolution of consent to be forwarded
forthwith to the President; that the Senate's action can
not be held to be final so long as it, retained the right to
reconsider; that the Senate did not by its order of notification waive its right to reconsider or intend that the
President should forthwith commission Smith; that the

32

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

286 U.S.

rules did not make the right of reconsideration dependent
upon compliance by the President with its. raIuest that
the resolution of consent be returned; that the rules were
binding upon the President and all other persons dealing
with the Senate in this matter; that as the President was
charged with knowledge of the rules, his signing of the
commission prior to the expiration of the period within
which the Senate might entertain a motion to reconsider
had no conclusive legal effect; and that the nominee who
had not been legally confirmed could not by his own acts
in accepting the commission, taking an oath of office and
beginning the discharge of his duties vest himself with any
legal rights.
Counsel for the Senate assert that a survey of the historical development of the rules of the Senate relating to
reconsideration confirms its present interpretation of the
rules; and that the interpretation is further confirmed by
the multitudinous instances appearing in the Executive
Journal of the Senate in which the President, at the Sen-ate's request, returned resolutions, both of confirmation
and of rejection.' We are of opinion that the Senate's
contention is unsound.
'At the argument in the Supreme Court of the District, the parties
joined in submitting a pamphlet containing a list of precedents for
the reconsideration by the Senate.of a vote confirming or rejecting a.
nomination after notification of the President of its action thereon;
and this pamphlet was filed with the opinion of that court. Before
entry of the order denyiig the.petition, the parties, by stipulation,

submitted additional information in regard to facts concerning nomination, confirmation and the issuance of commissions in special cases,
as shown by the Senate Executive Journal, by records of the Executive
Offices of the White House, and in certain instances by departmental
records. The stipulation was made part of the record in the case
in the Supreme Court. In accordance with agreement of counsel, both
the pamphlet and the stipulation were printed as one document by

the Clerk of the Court of Appeals.
.Unless otherwise indicated, the references in the succeeding footnotes are drawn from this material.

UNITED STATES v. SMITH.
6

Opinion of the Court.

First, The question primarily at issue relates to the
construction of the applicable rules, not to their constitutionality. Article I, § 5, cl. 2, of the Constitution provides that "each house may determine the rules of its
proceedings." In United States v. Ballin, 144 U. S. 1, 5,
the Court said: "Neither do the advantages or disadvantages, the wisdom or folly, of . . . a rule present any
matters for judicial consideration. With the courts the
question is only one of power. The Constitution empowers. each house to determine its rules of proceedings.
It may not by its rules ignore constitutional restraints or
-violate fundamental rights, and there should be a reasonable relation between the mode or method of proceeding
established by the rule and the result which is sought
to be attained. But within these limitations all matters of method are open to the determination of the house,
and -it is no impeachment of the rule to say that some
other way would be better, more accurate or even more
just." Whether, if the rules of the Senate had in terms
reserved power to reconsider a vote of adyice and consent
under the circumstances here presented, such reservation
would be effective as against the President's action, need
not be considered here.
As the 'construction to be given to the rules affects
persons other than members of the Senate, th question
presented is of necessity a judicial one. Smith asserts that
he was duly appointed to office, in the manner prescribed
by the Constitution. See Marbury v. Madison, 1 Cranch
137, 155, 156, The Senate disputes the claim. In deciding
the.issue, the Court must give great weight to the Senate's
present construction of its own rules; but so far, at least,
as that construction was arrived at subsequent to the
events in controversy, we are not concluded by it.
Second. Obviously, paragraph 3 of Senate Rule
XXXVIII contemplates circumstances under which the
Senat6 may sfill reconsider. a vote 3onfirming or. rejecting

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

286 U.S.

a nomination, although notification of its original action
has already been sent to the President. Otherwise, the
provision for, a motion to request the return of a resolution would be meaningless. But paragraph 4 of the same
rule contemplates that normally such. notification shall be
withheld, until the expiratioil of the time limited for making a motion to reconsider, and if a motion be made,
until the disposition thereof; for it declares that notification shall be so withheld "unless otherwise ordered by the
Senate." In this case the Senate did so order otherwise;
and the question is as to the meaning and effect of this
special procedure.
Smith urges that-upon receipt of a resolution of advice
and consent, final upon its face, the President is authorized to complete the appointment; and that a request to
return the resolution can have no effect unless it is received prior to the signing of the commission; that if this
were not true the notification would not authorize the
President to do anything until the expiration of the reconsideration period, and hence would be futile; or it
would purport to authorize him to make an appointment
defeasible upon reconsideration and reversal of the Senate's action' and hence would violate a constitutional requirement of unconditional assent. We do not understand counsel for the appellant to urge that an appointment so defeasible may be made, and we have, therefore,
no occasion to consider the constitutional objection, advanced on Smith's behalf, to a construction permitting
such action. Nor need we consider whether the President
might decline to accede to a request to return the Senate's resolution if he received it before making the appointment. The question at issue is whether, under the
Senate's rules, an order of notification empowers the
President to make a final and indefeasible appointment,
if he acts before notice of reconsideration; or whether,

UNITED STATES v. SMITH.
6

35

Opinion of the Court.

despite the notification, he is powerless to complete the
appointment until two days of executive session shall
have passed without the entry of a motion to reconsider.
Third. The natural meaning of an order of notification
to the President is that the Senate consents that the appointment be forthwith completed and that the appointee
take office. This is the meaning which, under the rules, a
resolution bears when it is sent in normal. course after the
expiration of the period for reconsideration. Notification before that time is an exceptional procedure, which
may be adopted only by unanimous consent of the Senate.6 We think it a strained and unnatural construction
to say that such extraordinary, expedited notification signifies less than final action, or bears a different meaning
than notification sent in normal course pursuant to the
rules.
It is essential to the orderly conduct of public business
that formality be observed in the relations between different branches of the Government charged with concurrent
duties; and that each branch be able to rely upon definite
and formal notice of action by another.7 The construction urged by the Senate would prevent the'President from
proceeding in, any case upon notification of advice and
consent, without first determining through unofficial
'The practice of the Senate seems to be to treat the ordering of
immediate notification to the President as, in effect, a suspension of
the rules requiring unanimous consent. See, e' g., 74 Cong. Rec., pt. 2,
pp. 1748-1749, 1937, 2066; id. pt. 3, p. 3393; Cong. Rec. 72d Cong.,
1st Sess., pp. 3782, 3881.
'Paragraph (2) of Senate Rule XIII, dealing with reconsideration
of measures which have been sent to the House of Representatives,
contains a provision for a motion to request the return of a measure
similar to that of Rule XXXVIII in respect to nominations. No
precedent has been called to the Court's attention indicating that this
provision would be construed as permitting the Senate to proceed to
a reconsideration, even though the House declined to honor its request.

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

286 U.S.

channels whether the resolution had been forwarded in
compliance with an order of immediate notification or by
the Secretary in the ordinary course of business; for the
resolution itself bears only the date of its adoption. If
the President determined that the resolution had been
sent within the time limited for making a motion to reconsider, he would have then to inform himself when that
period expired.. If the motion were made, he would be
put upon notice of it by receipt of a request to return
the resolution. But-under the view urged by the Senate,
that reconsideration may proceed even though the resolution be not returned, he would receive no formal advice
as to the disposition of the motion, save in the case of a
'final vote or rejection or confirmation." The uncertainty
and confusion which would be engendered by such a construction repel its adoption.
The Senate has offered no adequate explanation of the
meaning of an order of immediate notification, if it has
not the meaning which Smith contends should be attached
to it. Its counsel argues that the practice of ordering
such notification developed at a time when the Senate
passed upon nominations in closed session; and that the
order may have been simply a means of furnishing the
President with information, not available through public
,channels, concerning the probable attitude of the chamber prior to final action. It is suggested that the President might thereby be enabled to muster support for a
nominee at first rejected, or to withdraw the nomination
before final rejection. But the explanation has no application to a notification of a favorable vote. Nor is it
'Thus, the motion to reconsider might be withdrawn, or tabled, or,
when put to a vote, might fail, in any of which events the nomination
would stand as confirmed, without further notice to the President.
If the motion prevailed, the nomination would stand as originally
made by the President, but no notice of that fact would reach him
unless it were again finally acted upon.

UNITED STATES v. SMITH.
6

Opinion of the Court.

credible that the Senate by unanimous vote would adopt
a procedure designed merely to permit the. exertion of
influence upon a majority to change a decision already
made. The construction urged is a labored one. It
should not be adopted unless plainly required by the history of the rules and by the meaning which the Senate
and the Executive Department in practice have given
them.
Fourth.,We find nothing in the history of the rules
which lends support to the contention. of the Senate; and
much in their history to the contrary. The present rules
relating to the reconsideration of votes confirming or rejecting nominations are substantially those of March 25,
1868. The earlier history is this: Priorxto April 6, 1867,
no rule had dealt specifically with reconsideration of votes
concerning nominations. A resolution adopted February
25, 1790, provided generally that "when a question has been once made and carried in the affirmative or negative,
it shall be in order for any member of the majqrity to
move for a reconsideration of it." In 1806, two limitations were attached to this provision: first, that, "no motion for the reconsideration of any vote shall be in order,
after a bill, resolution, message, report, amendment, or
motion, upon which the vote'was taken, shall have gone
out of the possession of the Senate, nor after the usual
message shall have been sent from the Senate, announcing
their decision;" and, second, that no such motion shall be
in order "unless made on the same day in which the vote
was taken, or within the three next days of actual session
of the Senate thereafter." '" In 1818, a resolution was
adopted, "that in future, all nominations approved, or
definitely acted on by the Senate, be by the Secretary
returned to the Pi'esident of the United States, from day
'This rule was altered in 1820 by limiting the time for making a
motion to reconsider to two days, and by"striking out the words " nor
after the usual message shall have been sent from the Senate."

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

286 U.S.

-to day, as such proceedings may occur, any rule or usage
to the contrary notwithstanding."
These rules remained in force until 1867.10 Under
them, the Senate decided by unanimous vote in 1830, in
the earliest of the precedents cited by the parties, that
it was without power to reconsider its rejection of the
nomination of Isaac Hill as Second Comptroller of the
Treasury, "because the President had been notified." No
request appears to have been made in that Case for the
return of the resolution of rejection. Subsequently, however, it became the practice for the President upon request, to return resolutions of rejection or confirmation,
as a matter of comity; and the Senate thereupon reconsidered i.ts action, despite the question under its rules
whether reconsideration was in order. Between 1830,
the time of Hill's case, and April 5, 1867, about 160 such
In 1792, on January 27, the Senate in executive session ordered,
"that the President of the United States be furnished with an
authenticated transcript of the executive records of the Senate, from
time to time;" and " that no executive business, in future, be published by the Secretary of the Senate." The latter provision .remained
in force until June 18, 1929, when it was resolved that all such business
should be transacted in open session. The former provision is still in
force, although modified by subsequent rules. See note 4, supra.
The first such modification was the resolution of March 27, 1818,
mentioned in the text, making special provision for immediate notification of the President concerning, action upon nominations. On
January 5, 1829, it was "Resolved, That no paper, sent to the Senate
by the President of the United States, or any executive officer, be
returned, or delivered from the office -of the Secretary, without an
order of the Senate for that purpose."
On February 18, 1843, the Senate adopted the followihg resolution:
"That nominations made by the President to the Senate, and which
are neither approved nor rejected during the session ai .which they are
made, shall not'be acted upon at any succeeding session without being
againnade by the President, and that such shall hereafter be the rule
of the Senate." This resolution is in substance incorporated in
pregent Rule XXXVIII, paragraph (6).

UNITED STATES v. SMITH.
6

39

Opinion of the Court.

cases occurred. But several occurring at the close of the
period show clearly the limits of the practice. In two
cases, the President declined to return the resolution on
the ground that the commission had already issued; and
the Senate acceded to the refusal. . In another, the resolution was returned, but with the statemerit that a commission had issued; and the Senate appears to have taken
no further action."2 And on April 3, 1867, in the case
of A. C. Fisk, the Senate upheld a decision of the chair
that a motion to reconsider a vote of confirmation was out
"These were the nominations of John H. Goddard, in 1864, for
Justice of the Peace for Washington County, District of Columbia,
and of Westley Frost, in 1867, as Assessor of Internal Revenue for
the Twenty-first District of Pennsylvania. In the Goddard case,
President Lincolh advised the Senate simply that the resolution was'
sent to the Department of State prior to receipt of the request for its
return, and, that "a commission in accordance therewith [was] issued
to Mr. Goddard on the same day, the appointment being thus
perfected, and the resolution becoming a part of the permanent
records of the Department of State." No further proceedings are
recorded in the Senate Executive Journal. In the Frost case, after a
similar reply, Senator Sherman offered a resolution that "the Secre. and
tary of the Treasury be requested to recall the commission . ..
that -the President be requested to return to the Senate the action of
the Senate in the appointment ... " This resolution was rejected
by a vote of 14 to 23.
" In the case of Joseph K. Barnes, nominated as Medical Inspector
General in 1S64, President Lincoln returned the resolution 'of confirmation, but "respectfullr called" the attention of the Senate to
certain circumstances, including the execution and delivery of a'commission before the making of the motion to reconsider. -The author
of the motion to reconsider asked, and had leave,.to withdraw it.
In the case of H. H. Smith, nominated as Secretary of the Territory
of New Mexico, in 1S67, President Johnson returned the resolution
of confirmation, together with a report of the Secretary'of State
that " the commission was made out and sent to the Execuivo Mansion
for signature, and has not been returned." It is not clear that a coinmission did, in fact, issue. No further proceedingstare recorded in
the Journal.

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

286 U.S.

of order after the President had been notified, and before
the resolution had been returned.
Three days thereafter decisive changes were made in
the rules relating both to reconsideration and to notification of the President.' On April 6, 1867, the rule concerning reconsideration was modified so as to except specifically motions to reconsider votes upon a nomination
from the general prohibition of any such motion where
the paper announcing the Senate's decision had gone out
of its possession; and the present provision was added,
that "a motion to reconsider a vote upon a nomination
shall always, if the resolution announcing the decision of
the Senate has been sent to the President, be accompanied
by a motion requesting the President to return the same
to the Senate." At the same time, it was provided that
"all nominations approved or definitely acted on by the
Senate shall be returned by the Secretary on the next day
after such action is had, unless otherwise ordered by the
Senate."

These changes in the rules not only met the situation
which had arisen in Fisk's case, but gave explicit sanction'
to the long-standing practice of requesting the President
to return resolutions upon nominations and thereafter reconsidering them. Counsel for the Senate argue that, in
addition, they completely, reversed the practice theretofore established in respect to reconsideration after notification of the President; that by divorcing theperiod for
reconsideration from the' pormal time for hotifying the,
President,. they showed an intention that the power to
reconsider should be unaffected by the transmittal of no,
These changes were apparently prompted by. certain of the, incidents just referred to. The resolution presented by Senator Sherman
'in the Frost case, supra,note 11, was rejected on April 1, 1867. The'
amended rules were adopted, April 6, 1867, on motion of Senator
Fessenden, who had appealed to the Senate from the decision of the
chair in the Fisk case.

UNITED STATES v. SMITH.
6

Opinion of the Court.

tification .or by the President's action thereon. In a case
occurring shortly after the new rules were adopted, however, the Senate Committee on the Judiciary clearly
showed its understanding that no such change had taken'
place. Noah L. Jeffries was nominated for Register of
the Treasury and confirmed and the President was noti•fied. To a subsequent request for the return of the resolution the President replied that a commission had already
issued. The Committee on the Judiciary, to which the
matter was referred, expressed the opinion that the Senate
had power to reconsider its vote, but gave as its reason
that the request to return the resolution had in fact, been
1
received before the commission was signed. 4
"The President returned the resolution, with an accompanying
report of the Secretary of the Treasury. The report stated " that in
the ordinary transaction of business the commission was issued on
the 14th instant by the State Department, and was received at this
Department on the 15th instant. General Jeffries had legally qualified
and entered upon the discharge of the duties of his office prior to the
receipt of the Senate resolution of the 14th instant, which, under these
circumstances, is herewith returned." The Committee on the Judiciary reported in part as follows: " It... appears that before
Mr. Jeffries had been qualified or commissioned as required by law
precedent to his entering upon the discharge of his functions under
his permanent appointment the President of the United States, in
whom the sole right of appointment, subject to the qpproval of the
Senate, is vested by the Constitution, had received notice from the
Senate that it had not finally acted upon the question of advi sing
and consenting to the nomination, and withdrawing its resolution of.
assent to that appointment which had been tv-nsmitted to the President on the same day; and. the committee are, therefore, of the opinion
that the Senate may now lawfully reconsider its vote advising 4nd
consenting to the appointment if it shall see proper cause therefor.
In this view of the case a majority of the committee were of opinion.
that it was ineipe'dient to enter upon an inquiry as to the matter
of fact whether the issuing of the commission in this case and the
qualification of the officer in question was hastened for any cause
out of the usual course of business." The only evidence concernig
the subsequent history of the case is that during the same sesion,

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

286 U.S.

The basis for the argument drawn from the rules of
1867, however, was clearly destroyed a year later, when
the rule for notification was further altered, and given
virtually its present form. The new rule, adopted March
25, 1868, provided that "nominations approved or definitely acted on by the Senate shall not be returned by
the Secretary of the Senate to the President until the expiration of the time limited for making a motion to reconsider, or while a motion to reconsider is pending, unless otherwise ordered by the Senate." No material
changes have since been made, either in this rule or in
that respecting reconsideration." 5
some five months later, Mr. Jeffries was nominated for another office,
and rejected.
In the case of Samuel M. Pollock, confirmed as brigadier general'
by brevet, on April 8, 1867, the President, on April 11, complied with
a request to return the resolution sent him on April 10, and the
Senate later rejected the nomination. The records of the War Department show April 11, 1867, as the date of a commission to Samuel M.
Poildek. The entry is marked in red ink, " Cancelled (rejected by
the Senate)." Counsel for Smith, and the Attorney General and
Solicitor General in their brief amici curiae question whether a commission was in fact issued in this case, See note 19 infra.
. "The phrase "approved or defintely acted on" was changed in
1877 to " confirmed or rejected," and as so changed the rule still stands
as paragraph 4 of Rule XXXVIII. ' The rule on reconsideration was
also given its .present wording in 1877, when the material affecting
nominations was taken out of the general provision relating to
reconsideration in Rule 20 and placed in a separate rule. The only
changes of substance were the extension of the period for reconsideration to two days of "actual executive session," and the addition
of the sentence,: "Any motion to reconsider the vote on a nomination
may be laid on.the table without prejudice to the nomination, and
shall be a final disposition of such motion." At the same time there
as a separate rule, the following, now paragraph 5 of
iwas added,
IRule
XXXVIII: "When the Senate shall adjourn,
or take a recess
a vote upon a
reconsider
motions
to
for more, than'thirty days, all
nomination which has been confirmed or rejected by the Senate, which

UNITED STATES v. SMITH.
6

Opinion of the Court.

Read in the light of the preceding rules and the practice under them, the meaning of the rules thus established
is, in our opinion, free from doubt. Prior to 1867, it had
been continuously recognized that the President was authorized to commission a nominee upon receiving notification of the advice and consent of the Senate, and that the
signing of a commission cut short the power of reconsideration. The Senate so concedes. No explicit change in.
this respect was made either in the rules of 1867 or of
1868. The inference that no change was intended is
strengthened by the fact that under the latter rules, for
the first time, the sending of notification ordinarily coincided with the lapse of power in the Senate to reconsider
its action, under any circumstances. The proviso, "unless
otherwise ordered by the Senate," made possible the sending of notification before-the expiration of the period provided for. reconsideration. But there is no indication that
the Senate intended thereby to introduce a complete de* parture from past practice. The natural inference is to
the contrary. The proviso for immediate notification
must be read in connection with the cause permitting
motions to request the return of a resolution, which would
be in order only in cases in which the'Senate had acted
under the proviso. A motion to request the return of a
resolution was a familiar device, employed by the Senate
on repeated occasions. There is no reason to suppose that
such a motion was now intended to have a different effect.
than that which, by common understanding, it had-had
in the past. The common understanding had been that
a motion to request the return of a resolution was without
effect if the President before receiving it had completed
the appointment.
shall be pending at the time of taking" such adjournment or recess,
shall fall; and the Secretary shall return all such nominations to the
President as confirmed or rejected by the Senate, as the case m:iy be."

44

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

286 U.S.

Fifth. This construction of the rules is confirmed by
the precedents in 'the Senate arising since 1868. In all
cases in which no commission had yet .issued, the Executiv has honored the request of the Senate for a return
of its resolution, in accordance with the invariable practice from the beginning. 6 In the only instances, prior
to the case at bar, in which the Senate had occasion to
consider the effect, under the present rules, of the signing
of the commission before receipt of its request, it indicated
an understanding. that the power to reconsider was gone."'
16The

list of precedents incorporated in the record includes some

170 cases of nominations, arising since March 25, 1868, in which
motions to reconsider and request the return of the resolution were
entered. In almost all the cases the Senate Executive Journal records
affirmatively that the President complied with the request.' In a few
instances the fact of such return is not recorded, although the Senate
proceeded with the reconsideration. In no case, except the two
referred to in the text, does it affirmatively appear that the President
declined to return the resolution. In no case since the earliest
precedent listed, in '1830, is there a record of refusal to honor the
request on any other ground than that a commission had been signed
aid the appointment perfected.
,In the case of J. C. S. Colby, nominated as Consul at Chin Kiang,
the Senate on December 17, 1874, voted to confirm and ordered that
the President be notified forthwith. On December 21 a motion to
reconsider was entered and thereturn of tht resolution was requested..
President Grant replied, "Mr. Colby's commission was signed on the
17th day of December, and upon inquiry at the Department of State
it was found that it had been forwarded to him by mail before the
rpceipt of the resolution of recall." There is no evidence of further
action on the part of the Senate.
Morris Marks was confirmed as Collector of Internal Revenue for
the District of Louisiana on June 6, 1878. On June 11 a motion to
reconsider was entered and the retuxn of the resolution- requested.
President Hayes wrote: "In reply I would' respectfully inform the
Senate that upon the receipt of the notice of confirmation the commission of Mr. Marks was signed .and delivered to him, on the 8th
instant." The Senate Executive Journal records the fact that this
message was read, but contains no reference to any subsequent
proceedings in the case.

UNITED STATES v. SMITH.
6

Opinion of the Court.

In those two cases the President wrote informing the
Senate of the issuance of a commission, and no further
action Was taken by it.
Attention is called, however; to other cases in which it
is contended that the President returned the resolution
in spite of the intervening signing of a commission, and
that the Senate reconsidered its action. Sixteen cases
arising after 1868 are cited.1" The value of most of these
IA

The cases of Lewis A. Scott, originally*confirmed on June 7, 1870,

as Postmaster at Lowville, New York; John W. Bean, confirmed as
first lieutenant on January 11, 1872; James F. Legate, confirmed as
Governor of Washington Territory on January 26, 1872; George
Nourse, confirmed as Register of the Linkville Land Office, Oregon,
June 5, 1872; Alva A. Knight, confirmed as United States Attorney
for the Northern District of New York, January 21, 1873; Belle C.
Shumard, confirmed as Deputy Postmaster at Fort Smith, Arkansas,
February 6, 1873; Peter C. Shannon, confirmed as Chief Justice of
the Supreme Court of Dakota Territory, March 17, 1873; E. Raymond Bliss, confirmed as Deputy Postmaster at Columbus, Mississippi,
March 18, 1873; John W. Clark, confirmed as Deputy Postmaster at
Montpelier, Vermont, March 20, 1873; William H. Tubbs, confirmed
as Postmaster at New London, Conn., December 20, 1878; Joseph H.
Durkee, confirmed as Marshal of the Northern District of Florida,
June 30, 1879; Laban J. Miles, confirmed as Indian Agent at Osage
Agency, Indian Territory, February 15, 1883; George W. Pritchard,
confirmed as United States Attorney for ihe Territory of New Mexico,
February 19, 1883; Thomas H. Reeves, confirmed as Indian Agent,
Quapau Agency, Indian Territory, April 9, 1884; Edwin I. Kursheedt,
confirmed as Marshal for the Eastern District of Louisiana, March 27,
1889; and William Plimley, confirmed as Assistant Treasurer, March
10, 1903.
In the Bean, Legate, Nourse, and Kursheedt cases, the Senate
Executive Journal does not record whether or not the President returned the resolution, as requested. The President withdrew the nomination of Mr. Leate, on his own request, before the Senate had proceeded further than to debate the motion to reconsider. The Reeves
and Plimley nominations were also withdrawn. In the Scott, Knight
and Miles cases the motion to reconsider was withdrawn after return
of the resolution; in the Durkee case it was tabled; and in the Bliss
and Pritchard cases, when put to a vote, it failed. In the Clark case

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

2S6 U.S.

cases as precedents is questioned by Smith, and also by
the Attorney General and the Solicitor General in the

brief filed by them amici curiae. In none of the eases is
there any indication that the Senate was informed of the

fact of the signing of the commission, if in fact the commission was signed. Therefore, none of those cases furnish an authoritative construction by the Senate of its
own rules made prior to the events culminating in the
present litigation. They amount, at tot, only to evidence of the construction place(t upon the rules by the
Executive Department. The weight of many of the cases,
as such evidence, is further lessened by the circunstance
that the records do not disclose beyond dispute that a
commission had actually been signed by the President
before receipt of the Senate's request for return of its
resolution." All the cases but one arose between 1870
no further proceeding is recorded after the return of the resolution. In
the Shannon and Tubbs cases the nominee was again confirmed; in the

Shumard, Bean, Nourse, and Kurshecdt cases, the Senate adopted the
motion to reconsider, and either recommitted the nomination or placed
it upon the calendar. Only in the last six cases did the Senate in fact
exercise the power to reconsider.
It is conceded by Smith that in the cases of Legate, Shumard, and
Plimley, a commission had in fact been signed by the President at
the time he received and acceded to the request for return of the resolution. In the remaining cases the evidence of signing of the commission rests mainly upon entries of dates in the records of the executive
offices of the White House. In the Knight and Miles cases there are
also copies of the commission in the records of tho respective departments. The entry of the date of commission in the Tubbs case appears
to have been erased, although it is still legible. Those in the Reeves
and Kursheedt cases are scratched or crossed out. See note 19 infra.
"The contention of Smith, in which the Attorney General 'and
Solicitor General concur, is that the dates relied on in the White
House records are the dates which the commissions bore, but not
necessarily those on which they were signed. The practice in the
executive offices in this respect appears not to have been uniform.
Thus, in certain instances pointed out in the brief amici curiae, taken

UNITED STATES v. SMITH.
6

47

Opinion of the Court.

and 1889, nine of them in the administrations of President
Grant and President Hayes. Each of these Presidents on
occasion refused to accede to similar requests on the
ground that a commission had already been issued. 0
--Perhaps the most satisfactory explanation of the instances cited on behalf of the Senate is that the Executive
Department has not always treated an appointment as
complete upon the mere signing of a commission..21 Compare Marbury v. Madison, 1 Cranch 137; United States
v. Le Baron, 19 How. 73, 78. Even in the view most favorable to the Senate's contention they fall far short of
from a later .period' it, appears affirmatively, under the heading
"Remarks," that the commissioi was actually signed at a date'
subsequent to that entered under the heading "Commissioned." On
the other hand in the Plimley case, supra, note 18, and in the Colby
and Marks cases, supra, note 17, other evidence 'indicates that the
signature was in fact made on the date entered in the White House
rec6-ds. It appears to be the practice for the appropriate department
to prepare the commission in all respects, including the date, upon
receipt of notification of confirmation, and thereafter to present it to
the Executive to be signed. This practice creates the possibility of
disparity between the date of signing and the date appearing on the
commissio4.
"In the Colby and Marks cases, respectively, supra, note 17. The
most recent case, which is urged as strongly supporting the Senate's
contention, is that of William Plimley. President Roosevelt nominated Plimley in 1903 for Assistant Treasurer of the United States.
His commission was made out and signed, and a letter notifying him
of his appointment and enclosing an official bond was placed in the
mails. Notice-of a motion to reconsider the vote of confirmation having been received at the White House,- the chief of the division of
appointments ordered the letter extracted from the mails, and the
President returned the resolution and subsequently withdrew the
nomination.
Thus, it will be noted in both the Colby and Marks cases, supra,
note 17, that the commission had been either -placed in the mails or
delivered, and that the message of the President placed emphasis on
these facts.

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

286 U.S.

clear recognition of the power, never heretofore asserted
by the Senate itself, to reconsider a vote of confirmation,
after an appointee has actually assumed office and entered
upon the discharge of his duties. We are unable to regard
any. of the cases as of sufficient weight to overcome the
natural meaning of the clauses. 2
Sixth. To place upon the standing rules of the Senate a
construction different from that adopted by the Senate
itself when the present case was under debate is a serious
and delicate exercise of judicial power. The'Constitution
commits to the Senate the power to make its own rules;
and it is not the function of the Court to say that another
rule would be better. A rule designed to ensure due deliberation in the performance of the vital function of advising and consenting to nominations for public office,
moreover, should receive from the Court the most sympathe'tic consideration. But the reasons, above stated,
against the Senate's construction seem to us compelling.
We are confirmed in the view we have taken by the fact
that, since the attempted reconsideration of Smith's confirmation, the Senate itself seems uniformly to have
treated the ordering of immediate notification to the PresIn addition to the Senate precedents above discussed, counsel for
the Senate cite various decisions from state courts relating to reconsideration by state and municipal deliberative bodies. People ex rel.
MacMahon v. Davis, 284 Ill. 439; 120 N. E. 326; Witherspoon v.
State ex. rel. West, 138 Miss. 310; 103 So. 134; Wood v. Cutter, 138
Mass. 149; Crawford v. Gilchrist, 64 Fla. 41; 59 So. 963; Dust v.
Oatman, 126 Mich. 717: 86 N. W. 151. None .of these cases, however, presented the question here at* issue of the effect, upon the
power to reconsider of an intervening notification of confirmation
sent to an appointing officer, and of the signing by that officer of a
commission. It is therefore unnecessary to examine the reasoning
upon which they were decided.

GENERAL MOTORS CORP. v. U. S.
6

49

Syllabus.

ident as tantamount to authorizing him to proceed to
perfect the appointment."
The judgment of the Supteme Court of the District is
Affirmed.
GENERAL

MOTORS ACCEPTANCE
UNITED STATES.*

CORP.

v.

CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 574.

Argued April 14, 15, 1932.-Decided May 2, 1932.

1. The importation of intoxicating liquors without permit and without
payment of customs duties is a violation of. the tariff act and a
criminal offense thereunder. P. 56.
'Thus in the confirmation of Judge Louie W. Strum, Senator
Fletcher, in seeking unanimous coiisent "to waive the rule about two
subsequent executive sessions,". and notify the President of the
Senate's action, gave as his reason that "this judge is very much
needed, and has been for some months." 74 Cong. Rec..pt. 7, pp.
6489-6490. Notification was ordered on December 21, 1931, of votes
confirming nominations to the Interstate Commerce Commission and
the Board of Mediation, upon the statement of Senator Couzens
that otherwise "those gentfemen . . . can not hold office until after
two executive sessions shall have been held." Cong. Rec. 72d Cong.,
1st Sess., December 21, 1931, p. 10Q3. Again, on December 22, 1931,
on the confirmation of Robert B. Adams as engineer in chief of the
Coast Guard, Senator Copeland stated that "this man's appointment
expired on the 18th of December, and it is very important that he
be immediately put on duty." Notification was ordered. Id. 1131.
On February, 1, 1932, notification was ordered of the confirmation of
certain appointees to the Reconstruction Finance Corporation board,
upon' the statement of Senator Robinson that "it is believed that
there is necessity for the board to function immediately." Id. 3071.
See also, id. 3415, 3582, 3881.
* Together with two other cases of the same title and Howard Automobile Co. v. United Stat(s.

