EX PARTE GREEN.
427

Opinion of the Court.

Buckelew v. Martens, 108 N. J. L. 339, 156 Atl. 436;
American Laundry Co. v. E. & W. D. C. Co., 199 Ala. 154;
74 So. 58; Campbell v. Motion Picture M. Op. Union,
151 Minn. 220, 231-232; 186 N. W. 781.
We think the word "trade" was used in ยง 3 of the
Sherman Act in the general sense attributed to it by
Justice Story and, at least, is broad enough to include
the acts of which the Government complains.
Decree affirmed.
EX PARTE GREEN.
No. -,

Original. Motion submitted May 2, 1932.-Decided May
23, 1932.

An admiralty court in which a suit is pending to limit the liability
of a vessel owner in respect of a claim upon which an earlier common,law action for damages is pending against him in a state
court, should restrain the prosecution of that action if the claimant
persists in making the owner's right to limit liability an issue in it.
Langnes v. Green, 282 U. S. 531. P. 440.
Motion denied.
MoTIoN for leave to file a petition for a writ
of mandamus.

Messrs. Winter S. Martin and Samuel B. Bassett were
on the brief for the motion.
MR. JU TICE SUTHERLAND

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This is a motion by Winfield A. Green for leave to file
a petition for a writ of mandamus against the federal
district 'court for the western district of Washington to
show cause why the writ should not issue requiring the
judge thereof to conform to the opinion of this court in
Langnes v. Green, 282 U. S. 531. In that case Green hii

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

286 U.S.

brought an action against Langnes in a superior court of
the State of Washington to recover damages fpr personal"
injury suffered while employed upon the "Aloha," a
fishing vessel of which Langnes was the sole owner. Four
months, thereafter, while that action was pending, Langnes brought a proceeding in the- federal district court,
praying a limitation of liability under the appropriate
provisions of the Revised Statutes. The parties stipu-'
lated that the vessel was of no greater value than the sum
of $5,000. Upon the filing of the petition, the district
court issued an order restraining further proceedings in
the state court, and a monition to all claimants to present
their claims within a time fixed. Green filed his claim in
the amount of $25,000 for damages, which was the only
claim ever filed, and thereupon moved to dissolve the restraining order. The district court denied the motion,
and tried the cause in respect of respondent's claim, holding there was no liability and entering a decree accordingly. An appeal followed to the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit. That court reversed the
decree and remanded the cause upon grounds which need
not now be stated.
We reversed the decrees of both courts, and remanded
the cause to the district court, for further proceedings.
We held that the action was properly brought in the state
court under ยง 24 (3) of the Judicial Code, U. S. C., Title
28, ยง 41 (3), which saves to suitors in all cases of admiralty "the right of a common-law remedy where the
common law is competent to give it," and that the petition for a limitation of liability also was properly brought
in the federal district court. The situation then being.
that one statute afforded the right to a common law
remedy, and another the right to seek a limitation of liability, we said that a case was presented for the exercise
of the sound discretion of the district court whether to
dissolve the restraining order and permit. the state court

EX PARTE GREEN.
437

Opinion of the Court.

to proceed, or to retain complete jurisdiction; and, upon
consideration of the matter, we held that such discretion
should have been exercised so as to permit the state court
to proceed.
But we also said that the district court, as a matter of
precaution, should retain the petition for a limitation of
liability " to be dealt with in the possible but (since it
must be assumed that respondent's motion was not an
idle gesture but was made with full appreciation of the
state court's entire lack of admiralty jurisdiction) the unlikely event that the right of petitioner to a limited
liability might be brought into question in the state court,
or the case otherwise assume such form in that court as to
bring it within the exclusive power of a court of
admiralty."
As authority for that disposition of the matter we
cited The Lotta, 150 Fed. 219, where Judge Brawley,
dealing with a similar situation, had taken that course.
We quoted from his opinion, among other things, the
following (p. 223):
"All that the petitioner can fairly claim is that he
should not be subject to a personal judgment for an
indefinite amount and beyond the value of his interest
in the Lotta and her freight. . . . if it should hereafter
appear in the course of the proceedings in the state court
that a question is raised as to the right of petitioner to a
limited liability, this court has exclusive cognizance of
such a question . . . and the decision upon the question
of the injunction is predicated upon the assumption that
that question is not involved in the suit in the state court,
and that the only questions to be decided there are, first,
whether the defendant is liable at all, and, if so, as to
the value of the vessel and her freight, which is the limit
of defendant's liability."
It is clear from our opinion that the state court has
no jurisdiction to determine the question of the owner's

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Syllabus.

286 U.S.

right to a limited liability, and that if the value of the
vessel be not accepted as the limit of the owner's liability,
the federal court is authorized to resume jurisdiction and
dispose of the whole case.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, Green, following the
remission of the cause to the state court, put in issue the
right of the owner to limited liability, by challenging the
seaworthiness of the vessel and the lack of the owner's
privity or knowledge. The matter was properly brought
before the federal district court, and that court held that
the question of the owner's right to limited liability having been raised, the cause became cognizable only in admiralty, and that its further prosecution in the state court
should be enjoined. In this the district court was right,
and the motion for leave to file the petition for writ of
mandamus must be denied.
The district court, however, gave Green until a time
fixed to withdraw, in the state court, the issue as to the
right to limited liability, in which event the restraining
order was not to issue. That court, upon being seasonably advised of the proceeding here and of our disposition of it, will, no doubt, grant further reasonable time
to allow Green to elect whether to withdraw the admiralty issue which he has raised in the state court; and the
denial of the motion is made without prejudice to such
action.
Leave denied.
ERIE RAILROAD CO. v. DUPLAK

ET AL.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
THIRD CIRCUIT.

No. 608.

Argued April 20, 1932.-Decided May 23, 1932.

A New Jersey statute denying to persons injured while walking,
standing or playing on any railroad recovery of damages from the
company held to bar recovery in an action for personal injuries

