UTAH POWER & L. CO. v. PFOST.
145

165

Syllabus.

the circumstances now presented, either to apply or refuse
to apply the law of Vermont, in acc'rdance with their
own interpretation of New Hampshire policy and law.'
UTAH POWER & LIGHT CO. v. PFOST, COMMISSIONER OF LAW ENFORCEMENT, ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES,
FOR THE DISTRICT OF IDAHO.

No. 722.

Argued April 13, 1932.-Decided May 16, 1932.

1. The generation of electficity from water-power and the transmission of the electricity over wires from the generator to consumers in another State, are, from the practical standpoint of
taxation, distinct processes, the one local, the bther interstate, like
the making and shipping of goods to order, although the generation
and transmission are apparently simultaneous and both respond
instantaneously to the turning of a consumer's switch. P. 177.
2. Therefore a state license tax on the electricity produced at a plant
within the. State is Valid under the commerce clause as applied to
that which is transmitted therefrom and sold to consumers in
another State. P. 181.
3. In deciding whether a part of a statute is separable, the fact that
the bill was passed after a bill like it but lacking the part in question
had been withdrawn by unanimous idnsent does not justify the
inference that the legislature would not have passed the statute
if that part had been omitted. P. 183.
4. A clause in a statute declaring that an adjudication that any of.its
provisions is unconstitutional shall not affect the validity of the Act
as a whole, or any other of its provisions or sections; has the effect
of reversing the common law presumption that the legislature
intends an act to be effective as an entirety, by putting in its place
the opposite presumption of divisibility. P. 184.
5. This presumption of divisiblity must prevail unless the inseparability of the provisions be evident or there be a clear probability
that the legislature would not have been satisfied with the statute
without the invalid part. Id.
6. The primary object of the Idaho statute here involved (Laws 1931,
Ex. Sess., c. 3) is to raise revenue by taxing production of electricity. Section 5, which provides an exemption as to electricity

166

OCTOIBER- TERM, 1931.
Statement of the Case.

286 U.S.

used for pumping water for irrigating land in Idaho, is secondary
in purpose and its validity may be considered apart. P. 185.
7. In the Idaho law taxing electricity produced for sale, the exemption of that used for irrigating lands, inserted for the benefit of
jose so using it, is consistent with the equal protection clause of
the Fourteenth Amendment, because in the arid region the irrigation of even private lands is a matter of public concern. P. 185.
8. The question whether a state taxing statute will operate unconstitutionally to take the money of one person to give to another,
will not be decided here when the construction of the statute is
involved and has not been determined by the state supreme- court,
and when it does not appear that the party complaining is presently
in danger of such an application of it. P. 186.
9. This Court can not assume in advance that a state court will so
construe or apply a state statute as to render it obnoxious to the
Federal Constitution. Id.'
10. To warrant holding a statute invalid under a constitutional requirement that "every act shall embrace but one subject and matters properly connected therewith, which subject shall be expressed
in the title," the violation must be substantial and plain. P. 187.
11. The Idaho statute, supa, complies in this respect with § 16, Art.
III, of the Idaho constitution. Id.
12. The statute is to be construed as laying the tax only on the electricity produced for barter, sale or exchange, to be determined by
deducting from the production of the generator the amounts disposed of otherwise, including the part used by the -producer, or
consumed in effecting transmission. P. 188.
13., Neither the validity of the tax nor its certainty is affected because
it may be necessary to ascertain, as an" element in the computation,
the amounts delivered in another jurisdiction. P. 190.
14. In. the administration of a revenue act involving complicated
measurements and computations, fair and reasonable approximations must suffice where absolute precision is impracticable. Id.
54 F. (2d) 803, affirmed.

APPEAL from the final decree in a suit to enjoin the enforcement of a law taxing production of electrical power.
Th decree dissolved En interlocutory injunction and required the petitioner corporation to pay the tax, with
interest, but without penalties accrued during the pendency of the suit.

UTAH POWER & L. CO. v. PFOST.
165

Argument for Appellant.

Mr. John F. MacLane, with whom Mr. Robert H..
O'Brien was on the brief, for appellant.
The tax involved in this case-on the kilowatt hour of
electric energy-is not a tax on the manufacture of goods
or on the production or extraction of a product of nature
but on the transfer or' conveyance of energy in nature
from its source to its place of use. When this transfer is
across state lines it is interstate commerce.
The "generation" of electric energy is a part of the
process of transferring energy from a source in nature such
as falling water to some point where it may be usefully
applied. Energy can hot be "generated, manufactured
or produced" except as it is transmitted and used. The
process through the generator is continuous and simultaneous with the consumer's demand for energy. That
part of the process described as generation is the part
which is responsible for and causes the movement. The
generator is thus an instrumentality of commerce The
entire
combined process of generation, transmission and
use is integral,
continuous and essentially simultaneous.
Energy transferred to the consumer is drawn -directly
from its source at the water fall and is not stored in the
,system either at the consumer's place Qf use or some intermediate point. It is not analogous to a water or gassystem with storage facilities either separately furnished
or present in the water main or gas pipes.
Transformers interposed in the system for economy in
transmission, while they result in interrupting the flow
of electric current and in the induction of a different voltage and current on the other side of the transformer, do
not interrupt the flow of electric power. This passes
directly from its source through rthe transformers along
the transmission line to the place of use. It is this energy,
and not current or voltage, measured in terms of kilowatt
hours, which is taxed by the Act involved in this case.

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Argument for Appellant.

286 U.S.

So-called losses in the electric system on account of
which more energy leaves the generator than is delivered
to the consumer do not alter the fundamental nature of
the process. The system itself is a consuming device to
the extent that it requires the transfer of certain energy
from the source to enable the system to function and to
keep it electrically alive. These so-called losses are used
in the system and impress a demand upon the generator
of exactly the same nature as the demand exerted by the
devices of the consumers.
The kilowatt hour is a mathematical product of the
power relation in the electric circuit between the generator and the receiving device measured in kilowatts and
hours. It is a measure of the relationship expressed in
terms of power demand (kilowatts) and the duration in
time that that demand is exerted (hours). It is therefore
a measure of the use of the vehicle of commerce which we
call the electric system. Energy conceived of as leaving
a generator inone State in response to the demand of a
consumer in another State, and measured in terms of kilowatt hours, is in transit, and, in fact actually crossing
the state line and used by the consumer in the second
State sinmultaneousiy with its measurement.
That part of appellant's system which consists of generating stations in Idaho, and transmission lines across
the Utah-Idaho line to the terminal substation in Utah
where it is connected with transmission lines for local
distribution systems to consumers' devices,. operates in
interstate commerce. Whether such commerce extends
beyond the terminal substation is not involved in this
case. Public Utilities Comm. v. Attleboro Steam & Elec.
Co., 273 U. S. 83; Idaho Power Co. v. Thompson, 19 F.
(2d) 547.
The tax imposed by the Act under review is a license
tax exacted of appellant as a condition of continuing its
business. As applied to interstate business, it is similar
to a tax on a ton of freight, considered in the State Freight

UTAH POWER & L. CO. v. PFOST.
165

Argument for Appellafft.

Tax Cases, 15 Wall. 233, or upon passengers carried, as in
the Passenger Cases, 7 How. 283, or on the tonnage of
vessels, as in the Tonnage Cases, 12 Wall. 204, or upon
telegraph messages as in the Telegraph Cases, 105 U. S.
460. Being levied at a unit rate on energy in interstate
commerce, it can not be sustained as a license tax for
the privilege of conducting an intrastate business.
While the Act describes the tax as levied upon the kilowatt hour generated, manufactured or produced, yet the
process of :generation is simultaneous and interdependent
with the transmission and use. The Act burdens transmission and use equally with generation. The- generator
is an instrumentality of commerce. It is this inseparability of process which makes the whole interstate commerce.
Foster Packing Co. v. Haydel, 278 U. S. 1; Station WBT
v. Poulnot, 46 F. (2d) 671; and other cases cited. In this
respect, it is also within the rule of New Jersey Bell Tel.
Co. v. State Board, 280 U. S. 338; Sprout v. South Bend,
277 U. S. 163.
Since the tax falls .and has its incidence on energy already in commerce, and is measured by the amount of
the commerce in energy, it is likewise void under the rule
announced .in Eureka Pipe Line Co. v. Hallanan,257 U. S.
265; Coe v. Errol, 116 U. S. 517; Champlain Realty Co.,
v. Brattleboro, 260 U. S. 366; and other cases cited.
The Act in.-burdening interstate commerce is void in,
its entirety because it appears that the intent is to tax the
whole business and no provision is made for the separate
determination of interstate and intrastate business.
Crew Levick Co. v. Pennsylvania, 245 U. S. 292; Bowman v. Continental Oil Co., 256 U. S. 642.
Decisions in Hope Natural Gas Co. v. Hall, 102 W.
Va. 272; Oliver Iron Co. v. Lord, 262 U. S. 172; Heisler
v. Thomas Colliery Co., 260 U. S. 245; American Mfg. Co.
v. St. Louis, 250 U.- S. 459; East Ohio Gas Co. v. Tax
Commission, 283 U. S. 465, reviewed and distinguished.

170

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Argument for Appellant.

286 U.S.

Section 5 of the Tax Act uses the power of taxation for
the purpose of granting a subsidy to users of electric energy for irrigation pumping by requiring a credit upon
their bills of an amount equal to the tax otherwise payable on such energy.
This is a use of the power of taxation for private, as
distinguished from public purpose, and is void under the
Fourteenth Amendment, and other constitutional provisions cited. Jones v. Portland,245 U. S. 217; Loan Assn.
v. Topeka, 20 Wall. 655.
If this section is unconstitutional for the reasons above
stated, the Act must fall in its entirety. The history of
its passage shows that this so-called exemption, or subsidy, was inserted to secure its passage, and it would not
Exemption features of
have been passed without it.
statutes inserted to favor*certain individuals, or industries, in order to secure their passage can not be excluded
by judicial interpretation; and their invalidity carries with
it the entire Act of which. they are a part. Connolly v.
Union Sewer Pipe Co., 184 U. S. 540; Howard v. Illinois
CentralR. Co., 207 U. S. 463.
This view is not affected by that section of the Act
which provides that if any part be adjudged unconstitutional, such adjudication shall not affect the validity of
the Act as a whole or other parts. Dorchy v. Kansas, 264
U. S. 286; Lemke v.. Farmers Crain Co., 258 U. S. 50;
Williams v. Standard Oil Co., 278 U. S. 235.
The-levy of a license tax on electric energy generated in
a State; and a subsidy in favor of irrigation pumping users
is void under the Idaho Constitution. Art. III, § 16. State
v. Banks, 37 Idaho 27; Hailey v. Huston, 25 Idaho 165.
The subject of the Act is not expressed in the title. The
(Act.is void for that reason. Utah Mortgage Loan Corp.
v. Gillis, 49 Idaho 676; Jackson v. Gallet, 39 Idaho 382.
The Act is void for. uncertainty and, ambiguity because
it can not be determined whether a tax is levied on all
kilowatt hours generated,, or only on those produced for

UTAH POWER & L. CO. v. PFOST.
165

Argument for Appellees.

barter, sale or exchange.. If the latter is the true construction, and the court below so construed the Act in
order to sustain it against, the objection that the title
did not express the subject, then the Act affords no guide
or means for the determination of what electric energy
is generated for barter, sale or exchange, and does not
confer upon the Commissioner of' Law Enforcement any
power to prescribe a formula for such deternmination, but
attempts, onits face, to fix- a place and method of measurement, which, of necessity, excludes any possibility of
determining. the energy generated for barter, sale or
exchange.

-

A similar ambiguity and uncertainty is involved in § 5.
This section provides for the so-called exemption and
credit on irrigation power bills of the full tax which would
have been due on such energy. Since the only measurement of thetax, is at the point of -generation, and the
only means of determining the irrigation pumping use is
at the users' pumps, there is no possible means of determining the amount of energy generated for irrigation
pumping.
The Act, being highly penal in its nature, must be
capable of definite construction and enforcement according to its terms, and, failing in this, violates the due
process clause of the Constitution. Connally v. General
Construction Co., 269 U. S..385; United States v. Capital Traction Co., 34 App. D. C. 592; International Harvester Co. v. Kentucky, 234 U. S. 216; United States v.
Shreveport G. & E. Co., 46 F. (2d) 354; Western Union
v. Texas, 62 Tex. 630.
Mr. Sidman I. Barber, Assistant Attorney General of
Idaho, with whom Messrs. Fred J.Babcock, Attorhey General, and Maurice H. Greene, Assistant Attorney General;
were on the brief, for appellees.
The generator does not function to produce electrical
energy for barter, sale or exchange, except as its output

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Argument for Appellees.

286 U.S.

is called for by appellant's consumers. The response is
accomplished through the use of auxiliary controlling or
regulating devices adapted to that purpose. The demand
of a consumer's appliance is not related to the production
of any specific generator or generating station, but is impressed upon the system as a whole, and appellant supplies the aggregate demand by generation at such station
or stations and in such varying quantities between stations as it may determine.
The components of electrical energy are voltage and
current. With the voltage and current at which the energy flows from the generator, it may not be transmitted
to distant points. The transformer is therefore interposed
to change the current and voltage. This change is similar
to the packing of goodsafor shipment. The output of the
generator can not be said to have entered upon its final
journey until it leaves the transformer.
The losses or so-called uses in the system effectually
distinguish generation from use, in that the percentage
of electrical energy generated by stations which is delivered to consumers is dependent upon the character of
construction of the transmission line and distribution system and their efficiency of maintenance, and not by any
character of machinery or manner of operation at the
generating plant.
The kilowatt hour is a unit of measurement of an
amount of electrcal energy that will accomplish a definite amount of mechanical work. It is not a measurement of any period of service. It may be generated or
sold!, delivered and used in the friction of a second or
over the period of hours. It is an article of. commerce
and bought and sold as such.,
No tax is. attempted to be imposed upon the kilowatt
hour itself. The tax is measured by the amount of electrical energy generated 'without respect to its subsequent

UTAH POWER & L. CO. v. PFOST.
165

Argument. for Appellees.

transmission, at the first practical point of measurement,
and prior to its packing for shipment by the transformer.
The operation of appellant's system as a whole does not
destroy the distinction between the several and separate
steps of generation, transmission and distribution, in industrial and legal contemplation. These separate steps
may be undertaken by separate entities. Transmission is
subsequent to generation, and similar to the transportation of goods after manufacture. The control of the routing of the electrical energy is in the transmission network
and not in the hands of the man in control of the generator. Only the transmission phase is in interstate
commerce.
The tax is an excise with respect to an activity for
which a license is required, and imposed solely because
of the act of generating for barter, sale and exchange,
without regard to transmission. Where generation is accomplished by others from whom appellant purchases
electrical energy, appellant pays no tax with respect to
its transmission of such energy.
The telephone and radio cases discussed by appellant
are to be distinguished in that they deal only with transportation. The transmission of thoughts, intelligence,
and entertainment is not an act of production or manufacture.
The mode of measurement is upheld by the rule of
American Mfg. Co. v. St. Louis, 250 U. S. 459.
The tax being imposed solely because of the intrastate
activity of generation and without respect to whether the
output of the generator is thereafter transmitted in interstate commerce, it is not invalidated by any intent to
transport across state lines. The amount of electrical
energy generated for intrastate sales is capable of determination in the practical operation of appellant's system
and with reasonable certainty.

174

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Argument for Appellees.

286 U.S.

With respect to the Constitution of Idaho the language
of § 5 is held to create an exemption and not a subsidy.
It does not lend the aid or credit of the State. Williams
v. Baldridge, 48 Idaho 618.
As a public utility, appellant is entitled to only a just
and reasonable return. Its rate structure is not involved
in this suit, and the effect of § 5 with respect thereto is
beyond the purview of this inquiry and without the evidence. Unless it imposes a rate that is non-compensatory
the Tax Act is not wanting in due process because of § 5.
The exemption made by § 5 is a permissible classification. It affects alike all who are similarly situate, and
therefore does not deny equal protection. Appellant is
not the proper party to claim a discrimination against
irrigation uses in Utah.
If the section were unconstitutional it is severable from
the remainder of the Act.
The Act embraces but one subject and matters properly
connected therewith, which subject is expressed in the
title.
The tax is not so uncertain as to require arbitrary administrative action. The Act provides that the tax shall
be measured only by kilowatt hours generated or produced for barter, sale or exchange in the operation of
appellant's system. The amount of electrical energy generated for this purpose is ascertainable, and the basic
measurement must be made at the place of production.
An act is sufficiently definite where for reasons found to
result either from the text of the statutes involved or the
subjects with which they deal, a reasonable standard is
afforded. Mahler v. Eby, 264 U. S. 32; United States v.
Brewer, 139 U. S. 278; Miller v. Strahl, 239 U. S. 426;
Nash v. United States, 229 U. S. 373; Omaechevarriav.
Idaho, 246 U. S. 343.

UTAH POWER & L. CO. v. PFOST.
165

Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The Utah Power & Light Company is a Maine corporation doing business in the states of Idaho, Utah and'
Wyoming, under the laws of those states. The corporation is a public utility engaged in generating, transmitting
and distributing electric power and energy for barter, sale
and exchange to consumers in each of these three states
and in interstate commerce among them. The present
suit was brought to enjoin the enforcement of an act of
the Idaho legislature, levying a license tax on the manufacture, generation or production, within the state, for
barter, sale or exchange, of electricity and electrical energy. Laws of Idaho, 1931 (Extraordinary Session), c. 3.
Section 1 of the act provides that any individual, corporation, etc., engaged in the generation, manufacture or
production of electricity and electrical energy, by any
means, for barter, sale or exchange, shall, at a specified
time, render a statement to the Commissioner of Law Enforcement of all electricity and electrical energy generated, manufactured or produced by him or it in the
state during the preceding month, and pay thereon a
licelse tax of one-half mill per kilowatt hour, "measured
at the place of production." Sections 2, 3 and 4 provide for the time and method of payment of the tax and
the furnishipg of appropriate information. Section 4
further requires the producer to maintain, at the point
or points of production, suitable instruments for measuring the electricity or electiical energy produced. Section 5, which is the subject of a distinct attack, provides:
"All electricity and electrical energy used for pumping
the
water for irrigation purposes to be used on lands in"
State of Idaho is exempt from the provisions of this Act,
except in cases where the water so pumped is sold or rented

176

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

286 U.S.

to such irrigated lands. Provided, the exemption -here
given shall accrue to the benefit of the consumer of such
electricity or electrical energy. Provided further that the
full amount of such license tax which would have been
due from such producers of electricity and electrical energy, if such exemptions had not been made, shall be credited annually for the year in which the exemptions are
made on the power bill to the consumer by the producer
of such electricity and electrical energy, furnishing such
power, and such producer shall include a statement of the
amount of electricity and electrical energy exempted by
this section, furnished by it for the purpose of pumping
water for irrigation purposes on lands in the State of
Idaho, to the Commissioner of Law Enforcement of the
State of Idaho as a part of the statement required by
Section 1 of this Act, together with a statement of the
credits made on the power bills to the consumers of such
electricity and electrical energy for the pumping of water
for irrigation to be used on lands in the State of Idaho."
Section 8 imposes a penalty for any violation of the act.
or failure to pay the license tax provided for therein when
due, in the sum of three times the amount of the unpaid
or delinquent tax, to be recovered by civil action. Section 11 provides that if any section or provision of the act
be adjudged unconstitutional or invalid, such adjudication
shall not affect the validity of the act as a whole or of any
section or provision thereof not specifically so adjudged
unconstitutional or invalid.
After the filing of the complaint an interlocutory injunction was granted, 52 F. (2d) 226; and, thereafter,
appellees answered. Upon the evidence reported by a
master, to whom the case had been referred, the court
below (composed of three judges as required by law)
made findings of fact and conclusions of law and entered
a final decree dissolving the interlocutory injunction and

UTAH POWER & L. CO. v. PFOST.
165

Opinion of the Court.

requiring appellant to pay the tMx in question with
interest, but without any penalties which might*have accrued during the pendency of the suit. 54 F. (2d) 803.
This appeal followed.
The validity of the act under the federal and state
constitutions is assailed upon four grounds: (1) that
it imposes a direct burden on interstate commerce in
.violation of clause 3, § 8, Art. I of the Federal Constitution; (2) that it denies appellant the equal protection of
the laws and deprives it of property without due process
of law in violation of the Fourteenth Amendment and
of a corresponding provision of the state Constitution, in
that § 5 of the act compels the appropriation and payment of money by appellant for the benefit of private
individuals, and that, § 5 being unconstituti.onal, the act
as a whole must fall; (3) that the act violates § 16, Art.
3 of the state Constitution, which provides that every act
shall embrace but. one subject and matters properly connected therewith, which subject shall be expressed in the
title; (4) that the act is so uncertain and ambiguous in
specified particulars that its enforcement is left to arbitrary administrative action without a legislative standard,
and thus violates the due process of law clause of the
Fourteenth Amendment.
First. Appellant contends that the tax is not one on
manufacture or production or on the extraction of a product of nature, but on the transfer or conveyance of energy
in-nature from its source to its place of use; that in part
appellant's system consists of generating stations in Idaho
and transmission lines across the boundary into Utah, and
thence to various consumers, the. combined action of which
constitutes an operation in interstate commerce; that the
energy is brought to the consumers in Utah directly from
its source in the water fall; that thus the generator is an
instrumentality of interstate commerce; that the process
of generation is simultaneous and interdependent with

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

286 U.S.

that of transmission and use, and because of their inseparability the whole is interstate commerce; that since the
intent of the act is to tax the whole business, and no provision is made for the separate determination of interstate and intrastate business, the act, in burdening interstate commerce, is void in its entirety.
On the other hand, appellees say that the tax is laid
upon the generation of electrical energy as a distinct act
of production, and without regard to its subsequent transmission; that the process of generation is one of- converting mechanical energy into electrical form; that the resulting change is substantial and is a change in the physical characteristics of the energy in respect of voltage, current, and character as alternating or direct current, according to the design of the mechanical generating devices;
that the process of conversion is completed before the
pulses of energy leave the generator in their flow to the
transformer; that the tax is measured by the amount of
electrical energy generated, without regard to its subsequent transmission; that such transmission is subsequent
to, and separable from, generation, and, in effect, corresponds to the transportation of goods after their manufacture; that the generation of the electrical energy is
local, and only its transmission is in interstate commerce;
that since the tax is imposed in respect of generation, it
is not invalidated by reason of any intent on the part of
the producer to transport across state lines.,
In the light of what follows, we find it unnecessary to
state or consider the claims of the parties as to the effect,
of the interposition of the transformer between the generator and the places of consumption.
From the foregoing greatly abbreviated but, for present purposes, we think sufficient statement of the views
of the respective parties, it is apparent that in the last
analysis the question we are called upon to solve is this:
Upon the facts of the present case is the generation of
electrical energy, like manufacture or production gener-

UTAH POWER & L. CO. v. PFOST.
165

Opinion of the Court.

ally, a process essentially local in character and complete
in itself; or is it so linked with the transmission as to
make it an inseparable part of a transaction in interstate
commerce? From the strictly scientific point of view the
subject is highly technical, but in considering the case,
we must not lose sight of the fact that taxation is a practical matter and that what constitutes commerce, manufacture or production is to be determined upon practical
consideratiqMs.
Electrical energy has characteristics clearly differentiating it from the various other forms of energy, such as
chemical energy,. heat energy, and the energy of falling
water. Appellant here, by means of what are called generators, converts the mechanical energy of falling water
into electrical energy. Thus, by the application of
human skill, a distinct product is brought into being and
transmitted to the places of use. The result is not merely
transmission; nor is it transmission of the mechanical
energy of falling water to the places of consumption; but
it is, first, conversion of thai form of energy into something else, and, second, the transmission af that something else to the consumers. While conversion and transmission are substantially instantaneous, they are, we are
convinced, essentially separable and distinct operations.
The fact that to ordinary observation there is no appreciable lapse of time between the generation of the product
and its transmission does not. forbid the conclusion that
they are, nevertheless, successive and not simultaneous
acts.
The point is stressed that in appellant's system electricity is not stored in advance but produced as called for.
The consumer in Utah, it is said, by merely turning a
switch, draws directly from the water fall in Idaho,
through the generating devices, electrical energy which
appears instantaneously at the place of consumption. But
this is not precisely what happens. The effect of turning
the switch in Utah is not to draw electrical energy directly

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

286 U.S.

from the water fall, where it does not exist except as a
potentiality, but to set in operation the generating appliances in Idaho, which thereupon receive power from the
falling water and transform it into electrical energy. In
response to what in effect is an order, there is production
as well as transmission of a definite supply of an article
of trade. The manufacture to order of goods and their
immediate shipment to the purchaser furnishes a helpful
analogy, notwithstanding the fact that there the successive
steps from order to delivery are open to physical observation, while here the succession of events is chiefly a matter
of inference--although inference which seems unavoidable. The process by which the mechanical energy of falling water is converted into electrical energy, despite its
hidden character, is no less real than the conversion of
wheat into flour at the mill.
The apparent difficulty in perceiving the analogy arises
principally from the fact that electrical energy is not a
substance-at least in common meaning. It cannot be
bought and sold as so many ounces or pounds, or so many
quarts or gallons. It has neither length, breadth nor
thickness. But that it has actual content of some kind is
clear, since it is susceptible of mechanical measurement
with the necessary certainty to permit quantitative units
to be fixed for purposes of barter, sale and exchange.
However lacking it may be in body or substance, electrical
energy, nevertheless, possesses many of the ordinary
tokens of materiality. It is subject to known laws; mani-fests definite and predictable characteristics; may be
transmitted from the place of production to the point of
use and .there made to serve many of the practical needs
of life.
We think, therefore, it is wholly inaccurate to say that
appellant's entire system is purely a transferring device.
On the contrary, the generator and the transmission lines
perform different functions, with a result comparable, so

UTAH POWER & I. CO. v. PFOST.
165

Opinion of the Court.

far as the question here under consideration is concerned,
to the manufacture of physical articles of trade and their
subsequent shipment and transportation in commerce.
Appellant's chief engineer, although testifying that generation is a part of the process of transferring energy, said
on cross-examination that in the process of generation
there is a "conversion of the mechanical energy in the
turbine shaft into a different form of energy, that is electrical energy. It must be converted into electrical energy before it can be transmitted . . . . This process of
transformation is complete at the generator, and you
have a greater amount of energy there, capable of doing
a greater amount of mechanical work, at the generator
than you do after transmitting it into Utah." The evidence amply sustains the conclusion that this transformation must take place as a prerequisite to the use of the
electrical product, and that the process of transferring,
as distinguished from that of producing, the electrical
energy, begins not at the water fall, but definitely at the
generator, at which point measuring appliances can be
placed and the quantum of electrical energy ascertained
with practical accuracy.
The various specific objections to the findings made
below, and the failure to adopt others suggested by appellant, become immaterial in view of our conclusions.
We are satisfied, upon a consideration of the whole case,
that the process of generation is as essentially local as
though electrical energy were a physical thing; and to
that situation we must apply, as controlling, the general
rule that commerce does not begin until manufacture is
finished, and hence the commerce clause of the Constitution does not prevent the state from exercising exclusive
control over the manufacture. Cornell v. Coyne, 192 U.
S. 418, 428-429. "Commerce succeeds to manufacture,
and is not a part of it." United States v. E. C. Knight
Co., 156 U. S. 1, 12.

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

286 U.S.

Without regard to the apparent continuity of the
movement, appellant, in effect, is engaged in two activities, not in one only. So far as it produces electrical
energy in Idaho, its business is purely intrastate, subject
to state taxation and control. In transmitting the
product across the state line into Utah, appellant is engaged in interstate commerce, and state legislation in
respect thereof is subject to the paramount authority of
the commerce clause of the federal Constitution. The
situation does not differ in principle from that considered
by this court in Oliver Iron Co., v. Lord, 262 U. S. 172.
There the State of Minnesota had imposed an occupation tax on the business of mining ores. The tax was
assailed as being in conflict with the commerce clause.
It appeared that substantially all the ores there in question were mined for delivery to consumers outside the
state; and that the ores passed practically at once after
extraction into the channels of interstate commerce. The
greater part of the ores came from open pit mines, to
which empty cars were run and there loaded, the ores
being severed from their natural bed by means of steam
shovels and lifted directly into the cars. When loaded
these cars were promptly returned to the railroad yards
from which they came and were there put into trains
and continued their interstate journey. The several steps
followed in such succession that there was practical continuity of movement from the severance of the ores to the
end of their journey in another state. Upon these facts
the court held that the commerce clause was not infringed.
"The ore does not enter interstate commerce," it was
said, p. 179, "until after the mining is done, and the tax
-is imposed only in respect of the mining. No discrimination against interstate commerce is involved. The tax
may indirectly and incidentally affect such commerce,

UTAH POWER & L. CO. v. PFOST.
165

Opinion of the Court.

just as any taxation of railroad and telegraph lines does,
but this is not a forbidden burden or interference."
In Hope Gas Co. v. Hall, 274 U. S. 284, this court considered an act of the State of West Virginia imposing a
tax upon the production, among other things, of natural
gas. The chief business of the Hope Gas Company was
the production and purchase of natural gas in West Virginia and the continuous and uninterrupted transportation of it through pipe lines into aljoining states, where
it was sold, delivered and consumed. Most of it passed
into interstate commerce by continuous movement from
the wells where it originated. Interpreting and following the decision of the state court, it was held that the
tax was to be computed upon the value of the gas at the
well, and that if, thereafter, executive officers should fix
values upon an improper basis appropriate relief would
be afforded by the courts. The tax was sustained as not
involving an infringement of the commerce clause of the
Constitution.
In the light of what we have said in respect of the character of the product here involved, the manner of its
production, and the relation of such production to its interstate transmission, these cases in principle clearly control the present case and render further discussion or citation of authorities unnecessary.
Second. The attack upon § 5 of the act, which is copied
on a preceding page, is based upon the contention that
it does not grant an exemption but has the effect of laying
a tax for the benefit of favored consumers, that is to say,
of selected private persons;, and that the enforcement of
the section in, respect of allowances of credits by the producer to the favored consumers'will result in taking the
money of the former and giving it to the latter. A further contention is that § 5 is an inseparable part of the
Set, and being unconstitutional, the entire act must fall

184.

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

286 U.S.

with it. In support of the latter point, the grounds stated'
are.that the legislative hist6ry discloses as a matter of fact
that the act would not have been passed had § 5 not been
included; and that it is apparent on the face of the act
itself that the provisions of the section are essential and
inseparable parts of the-act as an entirety. It Will shorten
our consideration of the first point if we begin by disposing of the -second point as to the question of separability.
The claim that the legislative history discloses that the
act would not have passed without § 5 seems to rest entirely upon the fact that a bill for a 6inilar act, but which
did not.contain the challenged section, failed df passage;
but that, upon § 5 being included, the act thereafter was
passed. The bill first introduced did not conle tQ a vote,
but was withdrawn from consideration by-unanimous consent. That it would have been rejected if put to a vote
rests upon mere supposition. There is no real ground
for an opinion one way or the other. Courts are not
justified in resting judgment upon a' basis, so lacking jn
substance.
Nor do we think the-inseparability of the section from
the rest of the act appears from the face of the legisla11) provides that an adjudication
tion. The act itself (.§
that any provision of the act is unconstitutional shall not
affect the validity of the act as a whole, or of any other
provision or section thereof. While this declaration is
but an aid to interpretation and not an inexorable corn
mand (Dorchy v. Kansas, 264 U. S. 286, 290), it has the
effect of 'reversing the common law presumptioi, that the'
legislature inten'dg an act to be effective as an entirety,
by putting in its place the opposite presumption of diyisibility; and- this 'presumption must be overcome by con-.
siderations .that make evident the inseparability of the
provisions or the. clear piobability -that the legislature
would not have beep.satisfied with *te'statute unless it

UTAH POWER & L. CO. v. PFOST.
165

185

Opinion of the Court.

had included the invalid part. Williams v. Standard Oil
Co., 278 U. S. 235, 241-242.
It fairly may be assumed that the Idaho Legislature, in
making this declaration, had in mind every provision of
the act, including § 5. The primary object of the statute,
under review, plainly, is to raise revenue. The exemption
made by § 5 and the provisions for carrying that exemption into effect are secondary. We find no warrant for
concluding that the legislature would have been content
to sacrifice an important revenue statute in the event that
relief from its burdens in respect of particular individuals
should become ineffective. On the contrary, it seems entirely reasonable to suppose. that if the legislature had
expressed itself specifically in respect of the matter, it
would have declared that the tax, being the vital aim of
the act, was to be preserved even though the specified
exemptions should fall for lck of validity. Field v.
Clark, 143 U. S. 649, 696-697; People ex rel. Alpha P. C.
Co. v. Knapp, 230 N. Y. 48, 60-63; 129 N. E. 202.
In the light of these conclusions, § 5, in respect of the
constitutional question, stands apart from the remainder
of the act and is to be considered accordingly. The court
below followed the decision of .the state supreme court
(Williams v. Baldridge, 48 Idaho 618; 284 Pac. 203), in
holding that § 5 granted an exemption ultimately for the
benefit of the consumers of electrical power for irrigation
purposes on lands within the state. It seems to us plain
that the purpose of the act was to relieve the producer
from liability for the tax pro tanto, and to pass on to the
irrigation consumers the benefit thereof to the extentand only to the extent-of the savings effected through
the exemption. There is nothing to suggest that the
legislature intended to cast any additional burden.upon
the producer or require him to yield to the irrigation consumers anything beyond the equivalent of the exemption.
The irrigation of even private lands in the arid region is
a matter of public concern (Clark v. Nash, 198 U. S. 361),

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

286 U.S.

and we are of opinion that an exemption of the character
here involved is not precluded by the equal protection
clause of the Fqurteenth Amendment. Compare Louisville Gas Co. v. Coleman, 277 U. S. 32, 40.
The provisions in respect of the allowance of credits to
the consumers by the producer present a question of more
difficulty. If these provisions embody nothing more than
a method of accounting to make sure that the irrigation
consumers shall not bear, in whole, or in part, the burden
of the tax from which the producer is exempt, they would
seem to be without fault. If by construction or in application they result in taking from the producer more than
the sum of the exemption, a different question would
arise. The supreme court of Idaho thus far has not construed § 5 in respect of the provisions now under consideration. The point was presented but reserved in Williams v. Baldridge, supra, p. 631. It does not appear that
appellant is presently in any such danger of an unconstitutional application of these provisions of the statute
as to entitle it to invoke a decision here upon the question, and the rule is well settled that "a litigant can be
heard to question a statute's validity only when and so
far as it is being or is about to be applied to his disadvantage." Dahnke-Walker Co. v. Bondu'lrant, 257 U. S.
282, 289; Oliver Iron Co. v. Lord, supra, pp. 180-181;
Jeffrey Mfg. Co. v. Blagg, 235 U. S. 571, 576; Gorieb v.
Fox, 274 U. S. 603, 606. Primarily, the construction of
these provisions of the statute is for the state, supreme
court, and we cannot assume in advance that such a construction will be adopted, or such an application made of
the provisions, as to render them obnoxious to the federal
Constitution. In Plymouth Coal Co. v. Pennsylvania,
232 U. S. 531, 544-545, 546, Mr. Justice Pitney pointed

out that
"... in cases other than such as arise under the contract clause of the. Constitution, it is the appropriate

UTAH POWER & L. CO. v. PFOST.
165

187

Opinion of the Court.

function of the court of last resort of a State to determine
the meaning of the local statutes. And in exercising the
jurisdiction conferred by § 237, Judicial Code, it is proper
for this court rather to wait until the state court has
adopted a construction of the statute under attack than
to assume in advance that a construction will be adopted
such as to render the law obnoxious to the Federal Constitution." This was said in a case brought for review
from the supreme court of a state, but the same doctrine
was recognized in Arizona Employers' Liability Cases,
250 U. S. 400, 430, which came here on error to a federal
district court.
Third. Section 16, Art. III, of the Idaho Constitution
provides-" Every act shall embrace but one subject and
matters properly connected therewith, which subject shall
be expressed in the title." Appellant contends that the
act now under review contains two subjects, (a) the levy
of a license tax on electrical energy generated in the state;
and (b) a subsidy (§ 5) in favor of irrigation pumping
users. The purpose of the constitutional provision, as
this court said in Posadosv. Warner, B. & Co., 279 U. S.
340, 344, "is to prevent the inclusion of incongruous and
unrelated matters in the same measure and to guard
against inadvertence, stealth and fraud in legislation.
. . . the courts disregard mere verbal inaccuracies, re-

solve doubts in favor of validity, and hold that, in order
to warrant the setting aside of enactments for failure to
comply with the rule, the violation must be substantial
and plain." We cannot agree with the claim that the
violation here is substantial and plain. The statute levies
a license tax and creates an exemption therefrom in specified cases. This exemption, although it inures to the bene..
fit of third persons, and whether it be constitutional or not,
is obviously a matter properly connected with the subject
matter of the act. It is nothing more than a limitation
upon the generality of the tax. The supreme court of

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

286 U.S.

Idaho has laid down the proper rule in Pioneer Irrigation
Dist. v. Bradley, 8 Idaho 310; 68 Pac. 295, to, the effect
that the purpose of the constitutional provision is to prevent the inclusion in title and act of two or more subjects
diverse in their nature and having no necessary connection; but that if the provisions relate directly or indirectly
to the same subject, have a natural connection therewith,
-and are not foreign to the subject expressed in the title,
they may be united. Following this rule, we are of opinion that the objection is untenable.
It is further said that the subject of the act is not expressed in the title, since the title purports to levy a
license tax on electricity and electrical energy generated,
etc., for barter, sale or exchange, while the act requires
payment of a tax upon such electricity and electrical energy generated, etc., in the state of Idaho for any purpose
and measured at the place of production. The point
made is that a tax on energy generated specifically
for
barter, sale or exchange, and a tax on all energy generated
or produced in the state are. entirely different things. The
force of the contention depends upon the construction of
the act. We are of opnion, as will appear more fully
under the next heading, that the act, in harmony with
the title, imposes a tax only upon the energy which is
generated for barter, sale or exchange.
Fourth. Appellant contends that the act is so uncertain
and ambiguous as to require arbitrary administrative
action without a legislative standard, and thus take appellant's property without due process of law. The uncertainties said to exist are (1) that it can not be determined whether the tax is levied on all electrical energy
generated or produced, or only on such as is generated or
produced for barter, sale or exchange; and (2) that if the
*latter be the true construction, the act affords no guide
for the determination of what electrical energy in fact is
generated for barter, sale or exchange; but by fixing the

UTAH POWER & L. CO. v. PFOST.
165

189

Opinion of the Court.

place and method of measurement it excludes the possibility of a determination of that matter. The same uncertainties are said to exist in respect of § 5.
We think the act is reasonably open to the construction
that the tax is to be measured by the kilowatt hours
generated or produced for barter, sale or exchange. The
purpose, as manifested by the title, is to levy a tax "on
electricity and electrical energy generated, manufactured
or produced in the State of Idaho for barter, sale or exchange.". The act itself in terms applies to these engaged
in the production of electricity and electrical energy iM
-the State of Idaho "for barter, sale or exchange." The
producer is required to render a statement and pay a
license "on all such electricity and electrical energy so
generated, manufactured or produced, measured at the
place of production.' Considering these provisions and,
in connection therewith, the title and the general scope
and purpose of the act, the intent to impose the tax only
in respect of energy generated for barter, sale or exchange
is sufficiently clear.
The limitation of the tax to electrical energy generated
only for barter, sale or exchange obviously -requires that
in determining the amount so generated there be excluded
from the computation all electrical energy generated for
other purposes. In other words, the intent of the act
being to levy a tax only in respect of electrical energy
generated for the purposes named, it becomes necessary,
in order to effectuate the intention, to deduct from the
amount produced and measured at the generator such
amounts as are generated for appellant's own use, or otherwise than for the specified purposes. We think this
view is not precluded, by the provision in § 1 of the act
that the tax is. levied in respect of the electrical energy
generated, "measured at the place of production "; nor
by the further provision in § 4 that the producer shall
maintain at the point of production suitable appliances

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion. of the Court.

286U.S.

for measuring the electrical energy produced. Since tle
tax applies not to all electrical energy generated, and,
therefor6, not to all measured at the point of production,
but only to such as is produced for barter, sale or exchange, it necessarily follows that other factors than the
basic measurement at the generator must be taken into
consideration. That is, to put the matter concretely, the
amount of the initial production must first be ascertained
by measurement at the place of production, and from
that there must be taken amounts used by the producer
or consumed in effecting transmission (including so-called
line or system losses), or disposed of otherwise than by
'barter, sale or exchange-the remainder only being subject to the tax. The record shows that the ascertainment
of these necessary factors is practicable, testimony being
to the effect that the flow of energy passing any point
in the transmission system, as well as the amount delivered at any point on the system, can be measured with
fair accuracy if proper instruments be attached. Neither
the validity of the tax nor its certainty is affected because
it may be necessary to ascertain, as an element in the
computation, the amounts delivered in another jurisdiction. See American Mfg.. Co. v. St. Louis, 250 U. S. 459,
463; Hope Gas Co. v. Hall, supra.
It is said that the commissioner, who administers the
act, has not provided for these deductions or the means
for determiniirg them. But the commissioner must administer the act as it is construed; and it is not to be supposed that he will not now'properly do so. Undoubtedly,
the administration of an act like this one is attended with
some difficulty. Measurements.and calculations are more
or less complicated.. Absolute precision in either probably cannot be attained; but that is so to a greater or
less degree in respect of most taxing laws. If, for example, absolute exactness of determination in respect of
net income, deductions, valuation, losses, obsolescence,

REED -v. ALLEN.
165

Syllabus.

depreciation, etc., were required in cases arising under the
federal income tax law, it is safe to say that the revenue
from that source would be much curtailed. The law,
which is said not to require imposaibilities, must be satisfled, in many of its applications, with fair and reasonable
approximations. Compare Smith v. Illinois Bell Tel. Co.,
282 U. S. 133, 150; Story Parchment Co. v. Paterson Co.,
282 U. S. 555, 563-566; Commonwealth v. People's Five
Cents Savings Bank, 87 Mass. 428, 436.
Decree affirmed.
REED ET AL. v. ALLEN.
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.

No. 600.

Argued April 18, 1932.-Decided May 16, 1932.

1. The title to real estate and the right to rents collected from it
depended alike upon one and the same construction of a will. In
an interpleader over the rents, A got the decree. B appealed,
without supersedeas, and secured a reversal; but before his appeal
was decided, A had sued him in ejectment, invoking the decree,
and recovered a judgment for the real estate. B did not appeal
from this judgment, but after the reversal of the decree he. sued A
in ejectment for the land, relying upon the reversal. Held:
(1) That the judgment in the first action of ejectment was a bar
to the second. P. 197.
. (2) B's remedy was to appeal the first ejectment as well as the
interpleader and advise the appellate court of their relation. Butler
v. Eaton, 141 U. S. 240. P. 198.
2. A suit by interpleader to determbine tle right to funds collected as
-rents from a piece of land, and an action in ejectment to determine
title to the land itself, are on distinct causes of action concerning
different subject-matters, even though both depend upon the Same
facts and law, and a decree .of reversal in the interpleader suit can
not be made to operate as a reversal of a judgment for the other
party, in the ejectment cae; the rule of restitution upon reversal
is irrelevant. P. 197.
3. Jurisdiction to review one judgment gives an appellate court no
power to reverse or modify another and independent judgment.
P. 198.

