OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Argument for Appellants.

286 U.S.

GREGG DYEING CO. v. QUERY ET AL.*
APPEALS FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF SOUTH CAROLINA.

No. 170.

Argued December 10, 1931.-Decided May 31, 1932.

1. The constitutionality of a state taxing scheme is to be determined
by substance rather than by form, and the controlling test is the
operation and effect of the statute as enforced by the State.
P. 476.
2. The question of constitutionality is not necessarily confined to
the particular statute attacked, but may depend upon the resultant
of that and other statutes. Pp. 479-480.
3. When the Supreme Court of the State has held that two or more
statutes must be taken together, this Court accepts that conclusion as if written into the statutes themselves. P. 480.
4. A State may tax gasoline bought and imported from another State
which has come to rest within the taxing State and is stored there
by the purchasers for future use in their local business. P. 478.
5. Such a tax is not bad for discrimination against interstate commerce or for discrimination violative of the equal protection of
the laws, if the same tax burden is in effect imposed on all other
consumers of gasoline through a tax on local sales which is "passed
on" to the purchasers. Pp. 480, 482.
166 S. C. 117; 164 S. E. 588, affirmed.

from decrees dismissing the complaints in two
suits to enjoin collection of taxes.
APPEALS

Mr. James M. Lynch, with whom Messrs. P. F. Henderson, Shepard K. Nash, and B. A. Morgan were on the
brief, for appellants.
The following decisions cover the taxing of interstate
importations of gasoline or oils: Standard Oil Co. v.
Graves, 249 U. S. 389; Askren v. Continental Oil Co., 252
U. S. 444; Bowman v. Oil Co., 256 U. S. 646; Texas Co. v.
Brown, 258 U. S. 470; Sonneborn v. Cureton, 262 U. S.
513; Hart Refineries v. Harmon, 278 U. S. 499; Breece
Lumber Co. v. Asplund, 283 U. S. 788.
*

Together with No. 245, City of Greenville et al. v. Query et al.

GREGG DYEING CO. v. QUERY.
472

Opinion of the Court.

This gasoline tax act is repugnant to both commerce
clause and equal protection clause, in that it discriminates
against gasoline produced by other States and places a
license tax only upon citizens of this State who import and
store such gasoline.
The tax is unconstitutional as a license tax because it
taxes both interstate importation and storage within the
State.
The fact that the consumer must ultimately pay does
not change the nature of the tax prescribed. Cf. Panhandle Oil Co. v. Knox, 277 U. S. 218; EasternAir Transport v. Query, 52 F. (2d) 456; affirmed, 285 U. S. 147;
Helson v. Kentucky, 279 U. S. 245.
To stand the test of constitutionality, the statute must
be constitutional within its four corners. Recourse may
not be had to other statutes.
The Gasoline Tax Act of 1930 is plain and free from
ambiguity. It taxes only gasoline brought into the State
in interstate commerce. See Heisler v. Colliery Co., 260
U. S. 259; Los Angeles v. Lewis, 175 Cal. 777-781.
Messrs. John M. Daniel, Attorney General of South
Carolina, and J. Fraser Lyon were on the brief for
appellees.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE HUGHES delivered the opinion of

the Court.
By these actions, within the original jurisdiction of the,
Supreme Court of South Carolina, appellants sought to
restrain the enforcement of the state statute known as the
"Gasoline Tax Act of 1930." Acts So. Car., 1930, p. 1390.
The statute was assailed upon state and federal grounds,
the latter being that the act violated the commerce clause
(Art. I, ยง 8, par. 3), and the equal protection clause of the
Fourteenth Amendment, of the Federal Constitution.
The state court overruled these contentions and dismissed
the complaints. The cases are brought here by appeal.

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

286 U.S.

The provisions of the statute which give rise to the
federal questions are found in sections one and six as
follows:
Every person, firm, corporation, mu"Section 1 ....
nicipality, . . .in the State of South Carolina which
shall import into this State from any other State or
foreign Country, or shall receive by any means into this
State, and keep in storage in this State for a period of
twenty-four hours or more, after the same shall have lost
its interstate character as a shipment in interstate commerce, any gasoline or any other like products of petroleum or under whatever name designated, which is intended to be stored or used for consumption in this State,
shall pay a license tax of six cents per gallon for every
gallon of gasoline, or other like products of petroleum
aforementioned, which shall have been shipped or imported into this State from any'other State or foreign country,
and which shall hereafter, for a period of twenty-four
hours after it loses its interstate character as a shipment
of interstate commerce be kept in storage in this State to
be used and consumed in this State by any person, firm,
or corporation, municipality, . . . and which has not
already been subjected to the payment of the license
taxes imposed upon the sale thereof by acts of the General
Assembly of the State of South Carolina, the same being
Act No. 34, Acts of 1925, approved the 23rd day of March,
1925, and Act No. 102, Acts of 1929, approved the 16th
day of March, 1929, imposing license taxes for the privilege of dealing in gasoline or other like products or petroleum; Provided,That this Act shall not impose a tax upon
crude petroleum, residium [sic] or smudge oil: Provided,
further, That one percent to cover loss by evaporation,
spillage or otherwise shall be deducted by the taxpayer
when remitting the tax required by this Act. ...

GREGG DYEING CO. v. QUERY.
472

Opinion of the Court.

"Section 6. Nothing within this Act shall be construed
to impose a license tax upon any selling agent, consumer,
or retailer, selling, consigning, shipping, distributing or
using gasoline, combinations thereof, or substitutes therefor, which may have been bought from any oil company
on which the license taxes imposed by Act No. 34, Acts of
the General Assembly of 1925, approved the 23rd of
March, 1925, and Act No. 102, Acts of the General Assembly of 1929, approved the 16th day of March, 1929, have
been paid nor shall this Act be construed as applying in
the case of interstate commerce."
In. the case of Gregg Dyeing Company (No. 170), the
facts alleged in the complaint were admitted by demurrer
and other facts were stipulated as if the complaint had
set them forth. It thus appeared that plaintiff conducted
a bleachery in Aiken, South Carolina, and used gasoline
in its processes; that its practice is to buy gasoline in
bulk from dealers outside the State of South Carolina
and to have the gasoline shipped in interstate commerce
to plaintiff's plant where the gasoline is unloaded and
stored, and kept in storage, in plaintiff's tanks, for more
than twenty-four hours and until it is needed for use,
and in its entirety is used by plaintiff in its manufacturing business and for its own purposes, and is not brought
into the State for resale and is not resold; that there is in
Charleston, South Carolina, a refinery maintained by the
Standard Oil Company at which large quantities of gasoline are produced; that much of the gasoline thus produced, and much that is brought into the State by oil
companies for resale, is stored within the State for more
than twenty-four hours before it is sold or used, and is not
taxed -for its importation and/or storage in South Carolina, but is taxed when it is used or sold in that State
by such oil companies; and that such gasoline, produced

476

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

286 U.S.

in the refinery above-mentioned, as is shipped to other
States is not taxed in South Carolina. Final judgment
was rendered in favor of defendants upon the demurrer.
In the case brought by the City of Greenville (No. 245),
plaintiff alleged that it was a municipal corporation which
had brought into the State of South Carolina gasoline in
tank car lots, purchased outside the State, and thereafter 'had stored, and used and consumed it for public
purposes. Defendants demurred, there was an agreed
statement of facts in addition to the allegations of the
complaint, and the judgment upon the demurrer thus
raised the same federal questions as those presented in
the case first mentioned.
In maintaining rights asserted under the Federal Constitution, the decision of this Court is not dependent upon
the form of a taxing scheme, or upon the characterization
of it by the state court. We regard the substance rather
than the form, and the controlling test is found in the
operation and effect of the statute as applied and enforced
by the State. St. Louis Southwestern Ry. Co. v. Arkansas,
235 U. S. 350, 362; Hanover Fire Ins. Co. v. Harding,272
U. S. 494, 509, 510. The operation and effect of this tax
act have been determined definitely by the state court in
the instant cases. Construing the act, that court has said:
"The Act in question may be said to be complementary
to the other statutes of South Carolina under which are
assessed a gallonage tax on gasoline and other petroleum
products. Indeed, it expressly excludes from its provisions
all gasoline upon which a like tax has been paid under
other statutes. It so declares in its title and specifically
designates in its body the statutes, payment of the tax
under which exempts from its burden. ...
"In South Carolina, commencing about a decade ago,
the General Assembly expressed its public policy as to
revenue to be derived from the use of gasoline, vol. 32,
Stat. at Large, p. 835. The tax then imposed was two

GREGG DYEING CO. v. QUERY.
472

Opinion of the Court.

cents a gallon. In 1925, the tax was increased to five
cents, and in 1929, to six cents on the gallon. These
statutes, however, only reached 'dealers' in this commodity ...
"Statutes of this nature have been uniformly construed
as imposing a tax on the ultimate consumer or user, as
will be hereafter shown. Realizing that large users. of
gasoline either were evading or would evade the payment
of the tax imposed under these Acts, by bringing in gasoline in quantities from without the State, and storing it
for their own purposes, the Legislature in 1930 enacted
the statute under consideration, applying the six cents
tax to every person, firm, corporation, municipality or any
subdivision subject to its terms. . . . Thus, with the Act
of 1930 complementing the other statutes referred to, all
consumers of gasoline in South Carolina pay a tax of 6
cents per gallon, no matter what the origin of, or State in
which, the gasoline is produced. ...
"On its face, the Act expressly negatives an intention
to tax interstate commerce. It does not purpose to tax
any gasoline until twenty-four hours after it has lost its
interstate character. It seeks to operate only after the
coihmodity has been severed from its interstate character
and has become at rest as a part of the general mass of
property in this State subject to the protection of its
laws. ...
"The tax .here imposed is an excise tax, and not a
property tax. . . . All oil companies in South Carolina,
including the Standard Oil Company in Charleston, S. C.
are required to pay and do pay the tax upon any gasoline
they sell and all that they use in South Carolina, whether
it be for operating their trucks upon the highways or
otherwise (34 Stat. at Large, p. 197). . ..
"The tax applies only to persons who store with intent
to use and consume the gasoline in South Carolina. ... .
Mere storage after manufacture or production is not

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

286 U.S.

enough to provoke the application of the tax. The only
kind of storage affected is that with intent to use and
consume the product in South Carolina. Such intention
on its part petitioner admits to exist in the instant case,
and in all future transactions. The fact that the Standard
Oil Company at Charleston, S. C. manufactures and produces large quantities of gasoline which is stored at its refinery and which is untaxed before its sale or use in South
Carolina, does not, to our mind, work a discrimination
against petitioner or" producers in other States. It is admitted that that company, like all others, is required to
pay and does pay a tax of six cents on all of its products
sold in South Carolina or used and consumed in its business."
We may lay aside, as not here involved, any question
relating to importations from foreign countries. As to
interstate commerce, the questions are (1) whether the
Act as applied by the state court imposes a direct burden
upon that commerce, and (2) whether, although the subject of the tax would otherwise be within the power of
the State, the tax is invalid because it creates an unconstitutional discrimination against transactions in interstate commerce.
As to the first question, we are not concerned with what
the tax is called but with what the statute does. It imposes an exaction with respect to gasoline purchased in
other States and brought into South Carolina and there
placed by appellants in storage for future use within the
State. By the terms of the Act, as construed by the
state court and applied to these appellants, interstate
commerce in relation to the subject of the tax has ended.
The gasoline has come to rest within the State, having
been placed in appellants' storage tanks and added to
appellants' property kept for local purposes. In' such
circumstances the State has the authority "to tax the
products or their storage or sale." Texas Company v.

GREGG DYEING CO. v. QUERY.
472

Opinion of the Court.

Brown, 258 U. S. 466, 478; Sonneborn Bros. v. Cureton,
262 U. S. 506, 519, 520; Hart Refineries v. Harmon, 278
U. S. 499,'501, 502. Not only may local sales of gasoline
thus brought into the State be taxed, but its use as well.
This was specifically determined in Bowman v. Continental Oil Co., 256 U. S. 642, 648, 649. See Hart Refineries v. Harmon, supra; Breece Lumber Co. v. Asplund,
283 U. S. 788. There is an exception in the case of a tax
directly on use in interstate commerce, as on use in interstate transportation. Helson v. Kentucky, 279 U. S. 245,
252; Eastern Air 'Transport v. South Carolina Tax
Comm., 285 U. S. 147. In view of these well-established
principles, we find no ground for concluding that the
State could not impose the tax with respect to the gasoline of appellants which was kept within the State for
use in their local enterprises. As the Court said, in Hart
Refineries v. Harmon, supra, interstate transportation
having ended, the taxing power of the State in respect
of the commodity may, so far as the commerce clause of
the Federal Constitution is concerned, "be exerted in any
way which the State's constitution and laws. permit."
This, of course, is on the assumption that the tax does
not discriminate against the commodity because of its
origin in another State.
The state court answered the contention as to dicrimination against interstate commerce by referring to other
statutes of the State imposing a tax upon the sale and use
of gasoline within the State. The state court said that
the Act in question "taxes all gasoline stored for use and
consumption upon which a like tax has not been paid
under other statutes. By the kindred Acts all users are
, taxed." But appellants question the right to invoke
other statutes to support the validity of the Act assailed.
To stand the test of constitutionality, they say, the Act
must be constitutional "within its four corners," that is,

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

286 U.S.

considered by itself. This argument is without merit.
The question of constitutional validity is not to be determined by artificial standards. What is required is that
state action, whether through one agency or another, or
through one enactment or more than one, shall be consistent with the restrictions of the Federal Constitution.
There is no demand in that Constitution that the State
shall put its requirements in any one statute. It may
distribute them as it sees fit, if the result, taken in its
totality, is within the State's constitutional power.
When the Supreme Court of the State has held that two
or more statutes must be taken together, we accept that
conclusion aยง if written into the statutes themselves.
Hebert v. Louisiana,272 U. S.312, 317. See Lindsley v.
Natural CarbonicGas Co., 220 U. S.61, 73.
Reading together the statutes with respect to gasoline
taxes, the state court took the view that as to the gasoline
tax with respect to sales within the State, the burden
actually rests upon the consumer, although not placed
upon the consumer directly. No reason is found to challenge this view. Texas Company v. Brown, supra, at p.
479; Panhandle Oil Co. v. Knox, 277 U. S. 218, 222;
Indian Motocycle Co. v. United. States, 283 U. S. 570,
579. So far as dealers in gasoline within the State are
concerned there appears to be no ground for appellants'
claim of discrimination. The point with respect to appellants is that they are not dealers but users, consumers of
gasoline in their business. They are required to pay the
tax with respect to the gasoline they keep for such use and
consumption within the State. As to such gasoline, they
pay precisely the same amount per gallon as other consumers within the State are in effect required to pay
-through the tax on the dealers from whom such consumers
buy. Discrimination is asserted in relation to manufacturers who produce gasoline within the State and consume
it in their enterprises. Appellants have directed particular

GREGG DYEING CO. v. QUERY.
472

Opinion of the Court.

attention to the case of a refining company which produces
gasoline in South Carolina and consumes gasoline in its
business and also sells it within the State. The state court,
construing the applicable statute, has held that in such a
case the producing company is taxed with respect to the
gasoline it uses as well as with respect to the gasoline it
sells. The decision is unequivocal that "all oil companies
in South Carolina are required to pay and do pay the tax
upon any gasoline they sell and all that they use in South
Carolina." With respect, then, to the gasoline used by
appellants in their business, there is in this aspect no
discrimination against them because their gasoline has its
origin in another State, as others either buying or producing gasoline within the State pay the tax at the same rate
in relation to their consumption.
Discrimination, like interstate commerce itself, is a
practical conception. We must deal in this matter, as in
others, with substantial distinctions and real, injuries.
Shaffer v. Carter, 252 U. S. 37, 55. Appellants' attack
upon the tax comes to this, in the last analysis, that the
tax in their case is laid with respect to the gasoline they
have bought outside the State and keep in storage for
use and consumption in their business, whereas others
are taxed, not with respect to the gasoline they keep in
store for use and consumption, but for the gasoline they
use and consume. But appellants have admitted, as the
state court has said, that "the only kind of storage affected" is that for the purpose of use and consumption.
In this view the state court found no distinction of substance with respect to the practical operation of the
taxing statutes in pari materia, as all in like case, appellants and others who use gasoline in their business
enterprises, pay the same amount on the gasoline they
consume. Appellants had the burden of showing an injurious discrimination against them because they bought
their gasoline outside the State. This burden they have

482

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Argument for the United States.

286 U.S.

not sustained. They have failed to show that whatever
distinction there existed in form, there was any substantial discrimination in fact.
The same considerations, with respect to discrimination, apply to the claim that the statute in question violates the equal protection clause of the Fourteenth
Amendment. The statement of this Court in General
American Tank Car Corp. v. Day, 270 U. S. 367, 373, is
apposite: "In determining whether there is a denial of
equal protection of the laws by such taxation, we must
look to the fairness and reasonableness of its purposes
and practical operation, rather than to minutedifferences
between its application in practice, and the application
of the taxing statute or statutes to which it is complementary."
The right of the City of Greenville (No. 245) to raise
the questions presented under the Federal Constitution
does not appear to have been challenged or passed upon
by the state court and has not been discussed at this bar.
Accordingly, that question has not been considered here.
Judgments affirmed.
EDWARDS v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIFICATE FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 790.

Argued April 11, 1932.-Decided May 31, 1932.

Under ยง 7 of Art. I of the Constitution, a bill signed by the President
within ten days (Sundays excepted) after it was presented to him,

but after the final adjournment of the Congress that passed it,
becomes a law. Pp. 485, 494.
RESPONSE

to a question certified by the Court of Claims.

Attorney General Mitchell, with whom Solicitor General Thacher, Assistant Attorney General Rugg, and Mr.

