GENERAL MOTORS CORP. v. U. S.
6

49

Syllabus.

ident as tantamount to authorizing him to proceed to
perfect the appointment."
The judgment of the Supteme Court of the District is
Affirmed.
GENERAL

MOTORS ACCEPTANCE
UNITED STATES.*

CORP.

v.

CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 574.

Argued April 14, 15, 1932.-Decided May 2, 1932.

1. The importation of intoxicating liquors without permit and without
payment of customs duties is a violation of. the tariff act and a
criminal offense thereunder. P. 56.
'Thus in the confirmation of Judge Louie W. Strum, Senator
Fletcher, in seeking unanimous coiisent "to waive the rule about two
subsequent executive sessions,". and notify the President of the
Senate's action, gave as his reason that "this judge is very much
needed, and has been for some months." 74 Cong. Rec..pt. 7, pp.
6489-6490. Notification was ordered on December 21, 1931, of votes
confirming nominations to the Interstate Commerce Commission and
the Board of Mediation, upon the statement of Senator Couzens
that otherwise "those gentfemen . . . can not hold office until after
two executive sessions shall have been held." Cong. Rec. 72d Cong.,
1st Sess., December 21, 1931, p. 10Q3. Again, on December 22, 1931,
on the confirmation of Robert B. Adams as engineer in chief of the
Coast Guard, Senator Copeland stated that "this man's appointment
expired on the 18th of December, and it is very important that he
be immediately put on duty." Notification was ordered. Id. 1131.
On February, 1, 1932, notification was ordered of the confirmation of
certain appointees to the Reconstruction Finance Corporation board,
upon' the statement of Senator Robinson that "it is believed that
there is necessity for the board to function immediately." Id. 3071.
See also, id. 3415, 3582, 3881.
* Together with two other cases of the same title and Howard Automobile Co. v. United Stat(s.

50

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Argument for the Company.

286 U.S.

2. When the smuggling is by automobile, the driver is subject to
prosecution under the tariff act (U. S. C., Title 19, §§ 497, 1593)
for the importation and under the National Prohibition Act (Title
II, § 29; U. S. C., Title 27, § 46) for the transportation in the
United States. P. 56 et seq:..
3. Tue provisions of Rev. Stats., §§ 3061 and 3062 (U. S. C., Title 19,
§§ 482, 483) for forfeiture of vehicles bearing smuggled goods remain in force as part of the existing tariff system, and apply.where
the merchandise in the vehicle is intoxicating liquor as well as in
other cases. P. .56.
4. Where intoxicating liquors are smuggled over the boundary into
the United States in an automobile, the Government has its election either (a) to seize and forfeit it under the customs laws (R. S.,
§§ 3061, 3062) for the uhlawful importation, in which case the forfeiture may be enforced even against an innocent owner, though
the Secretary of the Treasury may remit it, upon such terms as he
deems reasonable, if satisfied that there was neither wilful negligence nor intent to violate the law, ( R. S., § 3078; Tariff Acts of
1922 and 1930, §§ 613, 618); or (b) to seize the vehicle under the
Prohibition Act for wrongful transportation! (ignoring the importation), in which case the prosecution must proceed on the same
basis and the owner of the vehicle may have whatever protection
comes from § 26 of that Act, and may, as of right, reQlaim what has
been taken if he has acted in good faith. Pp. 57, 59.
5. The proposition that § 26 of the Prohibition Act, though aimed
only at transportation within the United States, lays down the
exclusive rule for forfeiture of vehicles in which intoxicating liquors.
are unlawfully imported, and therein supersedes the forfeiture provisions of the customs laws, is untenable. Richbourg Motor Co. v.
United States, 281 U. S. 528, distinguished. Pp. 58, 60.
6. Repeals by implication are not favored; and least of all to the
derangement of a statutory'system deep rooted in tradition. P. 61.

RESPONSE to questions certified by the court below upon
appeals from decrees forfeiting automobiles under the customs laws. The appellants had intervened in the District Court, claiming that the vehicles should be released
to them as innocent owners.
Mr. John Thomas Smith, with whom Mr. C. A. Lindeman was on the brief, for General Motors Acceptance
Corporation et al.

GENERAL MOTORS CORP. v. U. S.
49

Argument for the Company.

The importation of forbidden liquor by transportation
across the border is a clear violation of the Prohibition
Act, subjecting the vehicle to forfeiture under § 26.
The national prohibition laws constitute a single, complete system for the suppression of the liquor traffic, including importation. The sweeping language of § 26
(Richbourg Motor Co. v. United States, 281 U. S. 528),
is an example. It pre-empts the field of transportation.
The incongruity of an obligation to pay a tax on an
article, the possession or importation of which had become
unlawful, led this Court to hold that the revenue laws
pertaining to liquor fell before the Prohibition Act.
United States v. Yuginovich, 256 U. S. 450. Shortly
following that decision, Congress passed the so-called
Willis-Campbell Act, c. 134, 42 Stat. 222, 223. Not by
any force of their own, but rather by virtue of that Act,
the penalty provisions of the customs laws and the internal revenue laws, in force when the Prohibition Act was
enacted, were continued, but only if and to the extent that
they are not in conflict with the penalty or forfeiture provisions thereof. The purpose was to make the other laws
subsidiaries of the National Prohibition system, in so far
as they related to the specific practices or acts condemned
by the latter.
The failure to repeal §§ 3061-2 under the tariff laws
does not signify that Congress intended those sections to
have co-ordinate authority with § 26. It is more consistent with the language of that section and of the WillisCampbell Act to say that all libels in liquor transportation
cases must be under § 26, leaving §§ 3061-.2 for applica.tion to other violations of the customs law.
The construction here urged has been accepted in
United States v. Ford Coupe, 43 F. (2d) 212; United
States v. One Studebaker, 45 F. (2d) 430; The Sebastopol,
47 F. (2d) 336; Colon v. Hanlon, 50 F. (2d) 353.
In other cases the Government was permitted to proceed under §§ 3061-2, where there was no evidence of

52

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Argument for the United States.

286 U.S.

transportation. United States v. Cahill, 13 F. (2d) 83;
United States v. One Reo Coupe, 46 F. (2d) 815.
Assistant Attorney General Youngquist, with whom
Solicitor General Thacher, and Messrs. Arthur W. Henderson and Paul D. Miller were on the brief, for the
United States.
The enforcement provisions of the customs laws provide a flexible and comprehensive system well adapted
to govern the importation of merchandise of all kinds.
The Tariff Acts of 1922 and 1930, passed subsequently to
the enactment of the National Prohibition Act, define the
word "merchandise" as including commodities the importation of which is prohibited. Both Acts provide for
duties on intoxicating liquors, and the penalty and forfeiture provisions of both unquestionably apply to intoxicating liquor, as well as to any other merchandise the
importation of which is forbidden.
On the other hand, in the National Prohibition Act
Congress did not provide completely or comprehensively
for the control of unlawful importations of liquor. Thus,
that Act contains no specific provision for the forfeiture of
vehicles used in the unlawful importation of intoxicating
liquors.
Implied repeal is a matter of intent. By making adequate and inclusive provisions in the customs laws for
the enforcement of the law against unlawful importation
of intoxicating liquors, by failing to provide complete
control of liquor importations in the National Prohibition
Act, and by expanding the facilities of the customs and
coast guard services in order to handle liquor importation
cases, Congress has indicated an intent that the forfeiture provisions of the customs laws are to be available
in cases involving unlawful liquor importations.
Richbourg Motor Co. v. United States, 281 U. S. 528,
does not govern this case. There the Court was dealing

GENERAL MOTORS CORP. v. U. S.
Opinion of the Court.

49

with the forfeitur'e provisions of an internal revenue law
originally enacted with reference to a lawful business
which subsequently became unlawful, and the Court held
that the mandatory provisions of § 26 of the National
Prohibition Act impliedly repealed the forfeiture provisions of the internal revenue law. The present case involves the forfeiture provisions of the customs laws which
.expressly applied to the importation of merchandise the
importation of which was forbidden. The forfeiture provisions of. these laws are as mandatory as those in § 26.
If they are in conflict, the former must be regarded as controlling, in view of legislative enactments since the
National Prohibition Act.
The substance of the offense involved in the Richbourg
case was the unlawful transportation of intoxicating
liquors. The substance of the offense involved in the
present case is the unlawful importation of the intoxicating liquors, the transportation being only incidental to
the importation.
Mr. Joseph 0. Myerson, by leave of Court, filed a brief
as amicus curiae.
MR. J Us cE CAADOzO delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The facts stated in the certificate are these:
"The record presents four consolidated automobile forfeiture cases in which the same disputed legal questions
are involved.
"On four different dates during July and August, 1930,
the four automobiles whose forfeiture is in issue were
seized at ports of entry on the Mexican border, each vehicle having liquor concealed therein. Three of the cars
were seized at San Ysidro, California, and the fourth at
Calexic6, California. Each car was observed crossing the
international boundary line from Mexico and traveling

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

286 U.S

some distance thereafter in the United States, and in each
instance the concealed liquor was discovered at an official
stopping place of the United States Customs Service.
The seizures were effected by Customs officers.
"All four drivers of the cars were arrested. Each was
charged with violations of the Tariff Act of 1930; namely
unlawfully importing liquor into the United States, and
knowingly concealing and facilitating the transportation
of such liquor. Each indictment alleged failure to obtain
a permit, failure to pay duties, and failure to make entry
at the custom house. The four defendants entered pleas
of guilty to the first count, which charged importation,
and were sentenced by the court. In each case, the remaining count was dismissed.
"A libel of information in rem was filed by the United
States attorney against each automobile, claiming its forfeiture under the provisions of Sections 3061 and 3062
of the Revised Statutes [19 U. S. C. A. 482 and 483].
In three ofthe cases the General Motors Acceptance Corporation intervened as owner of the attached automobiles,
and in the other case the vehicle was claimed by the
Howard Automobile Company.. All the interveners set
up proof of ownership, averred that they were innocent
of any illegal acts in which the vehicles may have been
involved, and prayed the court to dismiss the libels, contending that the government's sole remedy was under Section 26, Title II, of the National Prohibition Act [27 U. S.
C.A. 40].
"In each case, it was stipulated that the liquor alleged
to have been found in the automobile was intoxicating
in fact and fit for beverage purposes. It was further
stipulated, subject to the objection by the libelant that
such a purported defense was incompetent, irrelevant
and immaterial, that neither the seller nor the intervener
had any notice of the illegal use, or intended illegal use,
of the automobile.

GENERAL MOTORS CORP. v. U. S.
49

Opinion of the Court.

"The government offered in evidence at the forfeiture
proceedings the judgment roll, consisting of the indictment and sentence, in the criminal cases, at which, as
stated above, pleas of guilty had been entered. The intervener in each case objected to the introduction of this
judgment roll, on the ground that it was incompetent,
irrelevant and immaterial; that no proper foundation had
been laid; that the roll was not binding upon the intervener; and that it did not show that the intervener was
a party to the criminal action or had notice of it. The
objections were overruled and the'records were admitted
in evidence, to which the respective interveners duly
excepted.
"Testimony of customs officers showed that the four
automobiles were driven across the internationalboundary
.some distance into the United States before being searched
and seized.
"The District Court entered decrees of forfeiture in all
four cases, finding that each automobile 'was engaged in
smuggling dutiable merchandise into the United States in
violation of the customs laws thereof.'"
The four interveners having appealed to the Circuit
Court of Appeals for the ninth circuit, that court certified
for answer by this court the following questions (Judicial
Code, §239; 28 U. S. C., § 346):
" 1. Does Section 26 of Title II of the National Prohibition Act repeal by implication and render inoperative
in liquor importation and transportation cases the forfeiture provisions of the Customs Laws, in so far as offending vehicles are concerned? Or, putting the question in
another form:
"2. Po the mandatory provisions of Section 26. of the
National Prohibition Act apply when the automobile has
been seized while in the act of transporting intoxicating
liquor across the border and some distance into the United
States?

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

286 U.S.

"3. May the government, in such a case, ignore such
mandatory provisions, arrest the driver, and elect to forfeit the automobile under the customs laws?
"4. Is the record in the criminal case wherein the driver
pleaded guilty of violating the customs laws (Tariff Act
of 1930) admissible in the separate forfeiture proceedings
wherein the intervener is the only party appearing, for the
purpose of showing unlawful importation by the automobile, or for any other purpose?"
The importation of intoxicating liquors without permit
and without payment of customs duties is a violation of
the tariff act and a criminal offense thereunder. This was
the law under the tariff act of 1922, enacted after the
adoption of the Eighteenth Amendment. Tariff Act of
1922, c. 356, § 593 b, 42 Stat. 982; U. S. C., Title 19, § 497.
It is still the law under the present tariff act of 1930;
U. S. C., Title 19, § 1593. True, the drivers of the cars
who brought these liquors from Mexico into California
were subject to prosecution under the National Prohibition Act, 27 U. S. Code, § 46. They were subject to prosecution under the tariff act also (Callahanv. United States,
285 U. S. 515), and under that act they were indicted
and convicted.
The appellants would have us hold that prosecution of
the offender may ~e
based at the election of the Government either on the one act or on the other, but that forfeiture of the implements used in his offending may be
based on only one of them. The. consequence of such a
holding would be to withdraw from the tariff acts remedies and sanctions existing for the better part of a century.
Forfeiture of vehicles bearing smuggled goods is one of
the time-honored methods adopted by the Government
for the repression of the crime of smuggling. The provisions of the Revised Statutes, §§ 3061 and 3062, which
carried forward the provisions of earlier acts (Act of July
18, 1866, c. 201, 14 Stat. 178, § 3); have in turn been

GENERAL MOTORS CORP. v. U. S.
49

Opinion of the Court.

carried forward into the United States Code. U. S. Code,
Title 19, §§ 482, 483. By implication, if not in express
terms, they were recognized as law in the Tariff Act of
1922, which declares it to be the duty of any customs
agent who has made seizure of a vehicle for violation of
the customs law to turn the vessel over to the collector of
the district (Tariff Act of 1922, c. 356, § 602, 42 Stat. 984;
U. S. Code, Title 19, § 509). They are recognized by like
provisions in the Tariff Act of 1930. Act of 1930, c. 497, §
602, 46 Stat 754; U. S. Code, Title 19, § 1602. Indeed the
same implication persists in the prohibition law itself, or in
acts connected with it. By section 1 of the act of March
3, 1925, c. 438, 43 Stat. 1116; U. S. Code, Title 27, § 41,
"any vessel or vehicle summarily forfeited to the United
States for violation of the customs laws, may, in the discretion of the Secretary of the Treasury, under such regulations as he may prescribe, be taken and used for the enforcement of the provisions of this title [i. e., the title,
Intoxicating Liquors] in lieu of the sale thereof as provided by law" (cf. 27 U. S. Code, § 42). Certain it is therefore that vehicles carrying smuggled merchandise other
than intoxicating liquors may still be seized and forfeited
under the provisions of the tariff acts and those of the Revised Statutes ancillary thereto. The forfeiture may be enforced even against innocent owners, though the Secretary
of the Treasury may remit it, upon such terms as he deems
reasonable, if satisfied that there was neither wilful negligence nor intent to violate the law. R. S. § 3078; Tariff
Acts of 1922 and 1930, §§ 613, 618. The penalty is at
times a hard one, but it is imposed by the statute in terms
too clear to be misread. Beyond all room for question,
the owner of a vehicle bearing smuggled merchandise runs
the risk of forfeiture, subject to remission by the grace of
an administrative officer, where the merchandise is medicine or wheat or drygoods or machinery, subjects of legitimate trade upon payment of the lawful duties.. The argu.

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.

58

Opinion of the Court.

286 U.S.

ment for the interveners is that the intention of Congress
was to make the risk a lighter one where the trade is
wholly illegitimate, i. e., where themerchandise smuggled
consists of intoxicating liquors. They tell us that perhaps
a forfeiture under the tariff acts will be permitted when
what is laden in the vehicle is partly intoxicating liquor
and partly something else. Cf. Commercial Credit Co. v.
United States, 53 F. (2d) 977, 978, 979. They insist,
however, that the remedy under those acts must be held
to be excluded when liquor and liquor only is the. subject
matter of the carriage.
Section 26 of the National Prohibition Act (41 Stat. 305,
315; U. S. C., Title 27, § 40), which is quoted in the margin,* is said to lead to that bizarre result. We think its
purpose is misread when such a meaning is ascribed to it.
"When

the commissioner, his assistants, inspectors, or any officer

of the law shall discover any person in the act of transporting in
violation of the law, intoxicating liquors in any wagon, buggy, automobile, water or aircraft, or other vehicle, it shall be his duty to seize
any and all intoxicating liquors found therein being transported contrary to law. Whenever intoxicating liquors transported or possessed
illegally shall be seized by an officer he shall take possession of the
vehicle and team or automobile, boat, air or water craft, or any other
conveyance, and shall arrest any person in charge thereof. Such
officer shall at once proceed against the person arrested under the
provisions of this title in any court having competent jurisdiction; but
the said vehicle or conveyance shall be returned to the owner upon
execution by him of a good and valid bond, with sufficient sureties,
in a sum double the value of the property, which said bond shall be
approved by said officer and shall be conditioned to return said
property to the custody of said officer on the day of trial to abide
the judgment of the court. The court upon conviction of the person,
so arrested shall order the liquor destroyed, and unless good cause to
the contrary is shown by the owner, shall order a sale by public
auction of.the property seized, and the officer making the sale, after
deducting the expenses of keeping the property, the fee for the
seizure, and the cost of the sale, shall pay all liens, according to their
priorities, which are established, by intervention or otherwise at said
hearing or in other proceeding brought for said purpose, as being

GENERAL MOTORS CORP. v. U. S.
49

Opinion of the Court.

Section 26 of the National Prohibition Act is not directed
against smuggling, though the conduct that it does cover
may be an incident of smuggling. The Eighteenth
Amendment distinguishes the importation of intoxicating
liquors into the United States from their transportation
within, or their exportation from, the United States, just
as it distinguishes each of these activities from manufacture and from sale. The National Prohibition Act maintains the same distinction. Sections 3061 and 3062 of
the Revised Statutes are aimed at importati6 n from without the United States, and not at transportation within.
Section 26 of the National Prohibition Act is aimed at
transportation within, and not at importation from without. We do not mean that the Government may not separate the transaction into its criminal components, and'
prosecute or forfeit, according to its choice, for the one
constituent or for the other. Cf. Callahan v. United
States, supra. It may elect to seize under the prohibition
act for wrongful transportation (ignoring the preliminary
or later acts of importation or exportation), and in that
event the prosecution must proceed on the same basis.
Cf. Port Gardner Co. v. United States, 272 U. S. 564;
Commercial Credit Co. v. United States, 276 U. S. 226,
231; Richbourg Motor Co. v. United States, 281 U. S. 528.
If the seizure is for transportation only, the owner of the
vehicle will have whatever protection comes from § 26,
and may reclaim what has been taken if he has acted in
good faith. Restitution in such circumstances will be
granted as of right, and not by an act of grace as it is
where the seizure has been for evasion of the customs.
bona fide and as having been created without the lienor having any
notice that the carrying vehicle was being used or was to be used for
illegal transportation of liquor, and shall pay the balance of the
proceeds into the Treasury of the United States as miscellaneous receipts. All liens against property sold under the provisions of this
section shall be transferred from the property to the .proceeds of the
sale of the property ....

"

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

2861U.S.

Neither owner nor offender, however, has the privilege of
choice between forfeiture upon the footing of illegal transportation and forfeiture upon the footing of a smugglee
importation. The choice is for the Government.
We are told that this conclusion is inconsistent with
Richb'ourg Motor Co. v. United States, supra, where
seizure under another section of the Revised Statutes
(§ 3450) was held to be excluded. The section there considered had no relation to the customs. It had been
adopted as an internal revenue law many years before the
National Prohibition Act, at a time when the sale of intoxicating liquors for beverage purposes was still a lawful business. By its terms there might be a forfeiture of
a vessel or other means of conveyance which had been
used to remove goods or commodities with intent to defraud the United States of a tax imposed thereon. This
provision was held to have been superseded in the circumstances there disclosed by the forfeiture provisions in the
act prohibiting the transportation of intoxicating liquors.
National Prohibition Act, § 26. We are unwilling to extend the ruling to a situation like the one at hand. Two
grounds of distinction mark the limits of extension. The
first is that in the Richbourg Motor Company case, the
operator of the automobile was.arrested at the time of
the seizure and arraigned before a United States Commissioner on a charge of illegal transportation of intoxicating
liquors. There was a clear election to go forward under
the provisions of the prohibition act, and not under any
other. Section 26 is explicit in its requirement that the
officer seizing the vehicle under the authority of that section shall at once proceed against the person. arrested
"under the provisions of this title." By parity of reasoning the court held that when there has been arrest and
seizure under § 26 because of wrongful transportation, the
forfeiture! of what has been seized must go forward on
the same footing. Cf. Commercial Credit Co. v. United

GENERAL MOTORS CORP. v. U. S.
49

Opinion of the Court.

States, 276 U. S. 226, 231; United States v. One Ford
Coupe, 272 U. S. 321, 325. There is, however, a second
ground of distinction that is independent of the conduct
of the officer discovering the offense. It has relation to
the difference between § 3450 of the Revised Statutes on
the one hand and § § 3061 and 3062 on the other in respect
of the wrong to be redressed. The act of removal from
one place within the United States to dnother with intent
to evade the tax upon spirituous liquorsis one more nearly
identical with that of transportation within the United
States in violation of the prohibition law than is a wrongful importation in evasion of the customs. The bond of
integration is closer and more intimate. Cf. United States
v. American Motor Boat K-1231, 54 F. (2d) 502, 505,
Removal from one place within the United States to another in order to evade a tax is differentiated from unlawful transportation by the quality of the intent, and not
by anything else. Importation is differentiated also by
the nature of the act.
To refuse to give heed to these distinctions will lead us
into a morass of practical difficulties as well as doctrinal
refinements. If forfeiture of a vehicle seized in the course
of-importation must always be under § 26, and not under
other statutes, then the smuggler arrested at the same
time must always be prosecuted under the prohibition
act, and never for the smuggling, since seizure under § 26
must be followed, as we have seen, by prosecution of the
arrested person under that title and no other. We cannot bring ourselves to believe that Congress had in view
the creation of so great a breach in historic remedies and
sanctions. Cf. United States v. American Motor Boat
K-1231, supra. Derangement of a system thus rooted
in tradition is not to be inferred from a section aimed
upon its face at transportation within the United States
and not at importation from without. Cf. Maul v. United
States, 274 U. S. 501, 508. Repeals by implication are

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

286 U.S.

not favored (Hende~son's Tobacco, 11 Wall. 652; United
States v. Tynen, 11 Wall. 88, 92), and least of all where
inveterate usage forbids the implication. Indeed, the
breach, if we once allow it, will hardly be confined within
the ramparts of the acts that regulate the duties upon
imports. If a forfeiture under the customs laws is forbidden where there has been an unlawful importation
of intoxicating liquors, we shall have difficulty in upholding a forfeiture where there has been a violation of the
navigation laws or other cognate statutes. Already the
net of these complexities has entangled the decisions. Cf.
The Ruth Mildred, post. p. 67, and General Import &
Export Co. v. United States, post, p. 70. Courts accepting
the conclusion that the customs forfeitures are ended in
respect of intoxicating liquors have been unable to extricate themselves from the conclusion that forfeitures under
the navigation acts have fallen at the same time. A halt
must be called before the tangle is so intricate that it
can no longer be unraveled.
We hold, then, that Richbourg Motor Co. v. United
States, supra, does not rule the case at hand. The question is one as to which the decisions of the other Federal
courts are almost equally divided. On the one side are
United States v. One Ford Coupe, 43 F. (2d) 212; United
States v. One Studebaker, 45 F. (2d) 430; The Ruth
Mildred, 47 F. (2d) 336; Colon v. Hanlon, 50 F. (2d)
353; United States v. One Buick Coupe, 54 F. (2d) 800.
On the other are The Pilot, 43 F. (2d) 491; United States
v. One Reo Coupe, 46 F. (2d) 815; The Daisy T, 48 F.
(2d) 370; United States v. James Hayes, 52 F. (2d) 977;
Maniscalco v. United States, 53 F. (2d) 737; United
States v. American Motor Boat K-1231, 54 F. (2d) 502.
The list is not exhaustive. The courts of each group have
invoked the Willis-Campbell Act (Act of Nov. 23, 1921,
c. 134, 42 Stat. 222, 223, § 5), but have drawn opposing
inferences from it. By that act, all laws relating to the

U. S. v. COMMERCIAL CREDIT CO.
Syllabus.

49

manufacture, taxation and traffic in intoxicating liquors
and all penalties for their violation in force when the
National Prohibition Act was adopted, were continued
in force except such provisions as are "directly in conflict with the provisions of the National Prohibition Act."
See United States v. Stafoff, 260 U. S. 477. The advocates of an implied repeal insist that there is a direct
conflict between a statute whereby immunity for innocent
lienors or owners is given as of right and a statute
whereby immunity is on the footing of an act of. grace. To
this the retort is made by the opponents of repeal that the
spheres of the two immunities are diverse and that the
apparent conflict is unreal. Transportation within the
United States is the sphere of the one, and importation
from without the sphere of the other.
Of the four questions certified, those numbered two and
three are adequately answered when we answer question
number one.
The answer to question four may depend upon circumstances imperfectly disclosed in the certificate, and is not
shown to be necessary. White v. Johnson, 282 U. S.367..
The second, third and fourth questions are not answered, and the first question is answered "No."
MR. JUSTICE STONE took no part in the consideration
and decision of this case.
UNITED STATES v. COMMERCIAL CREDIT CO.,
INC.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIFTH CIRCUIT.

No. 734.

Argued April 15, 1932.-Decided May 2, 1932.

1. Vehicles employed in the unlawful importation of intoxicating
liquors may be seized and forfeited under the Tariff Act and the
provisions of the Revised Statutes ancillary thereto. General
Motors Acceptance Corp. v. United States, ante, p. 49. P. 66.

