CASES ADJUDGED
IN THE

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
AT

OCTOBER TERM, 1931
TAYLOR v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FOURTH CIRCUIT.

No. 693. Argued April 11, 12, 1932.-Decided May 2, 1932.
1. The time for settling a bill of exceptions after a conviction, was
extended at the request of the Government and expired on a
Sunday; counsel for both sides went together to the judge's
chambers to secure his signature on the Saturday preceding, but
failing to find him, agreed to ask for it on the next Monday.
This was done and the bill was then signed pursuant to their
agreement. Held that it should be accepted as part of the record,
because of the exceptional circumstances. P. 4.
2. Suspicion that a person is engaged in violations of the prohibition
law, confirmed by the odor of whisky and by peeping through a
chink in a garage standing adjacent to his dwelling and part of the
same premises, will not justify prohibition officers in breaking into
the garage and seizing the whisky for the purpose of obtaining
evidence of guilt. P. 5.
55 F. (2d) 58, reversed.
CERTIORARI,

285 U. S. 534, to review the affirmance of

a conviction under the Prohibition Act.
Mr. R. Palmer Ingram, with whom Miss Helen .Elizabeth Brown was on the brief, for petitioner.
The Government's contention that the evidence in this
case is not properly before the Court is untenable

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Argument for Petitioner.

286 U.S.

The fact that the last day of the period for settling the
bill of exceptions fell on Sunday operated to extend the
time to the next day on which the business of the court
could legally be transacted.
Here there are both express consent and conduct equitably estopping the Government to deny consent.
An endorsement upon the Bill, "We agree upon the
above, the foregoing Bill of Exceptions," signed by counsel after an extension by insufficient order, was held to be
a waiver of any objections to the order in Gulf, C. & S.
F. Ry. Co. v. Jackson, 64 Fed. 70. The facts bring the
present case within the term "extraordinary circumstances." In re Bill of Exceptions, 37 F. (2d) 849, 851.
See also Waldion v. Waldron, 156 U. S.361.
The opinion below unduly narrows the term "private
dwelling," in § 25, Title 2, National Prohibition Act, and
limits the Fourth Amendment. The garage was part of
the residence premises. Henderson v. United States, 12
F. (2d) 528, 529. In any event, the protection of the
Fourth Amendment includes garages, barns and other
structures. Te mperani v. United States, 299 Fed. 365;
United States v. Slusser, 270 Fed. 818.
The search of a dwelling for intoxicating liquor without
a warrant is strictly prohibited; and the issuance of a
search warrant for such premises is definitely limited.
National Prohibition Act, § 25, Title 2; Espionage Act of
,June 15, 1917, §§ 611 et seq.; Thompson v. United States,
22 F. (2d) 134; Staker v. United States, 5 F. (2d) 312,
314; Agnello v.,United States, 269 U..S. 20, 30.
The breaking into and search of any building at 2.30
o'clock at night is unreasonable and a wanton violation
of the Fourth Amendment. The violation of the Constitution becomes even more grave when the building was
part of A dwelling and the occupant was aroused from his
sleep. Alvau v. United States, 33 F. (2d) 467' 470;

TAYLOR v. UNITED STATES.
1

Opinion of the Court.

People v. Marxhausen, 204 Mich. 559; Weeks v. United
States, 232 U. S. 383, 391, 392.
The search does not come within the exception mentioned in the Agnello case of a search "incident to a lawful arrest." No person was present and subject to arrest.
The agents knew before they forced their way in that no
one was there.
The common law powers of peace officers have beer
limited by constitutional provisions and largely replaced
by statute. But prohibition agents are statutory
creatures (Dumbra v. United States, 268 U. S. 435)
without the general powers of peace officers.
Solicitor General Thacher, with whom Assistant Attorney General Youngquist, and Messrs. Mahlon D. Kiefer
and W. Marvin Smith were on the brief, for the United
States.
MR. JUSTICE MOREYNOLDS delivered the opinion of the
Court.

An indictment, United States District Court for Maryland, charged petitioner Taylor with the unlawful possession of intoxicating liquor-whiskey, one hundred
twenty-two cases.
By timely petition to the 'court he asserted that in the
night time prohibition agents acting without warrant had
entered and searched the garage adjacent to his residence
and had found and seized the liquor; that with this as
evidence the indictment had been obtained; he anticipated that like use would be made of it at the trial. The
prayer for its exclusion was denied.
By stipulation the cause went for trial by the court.
without a jury. The District Attorney called three of
the agents who participated in the search. The defendant moved to exclude all their testimony on the ground

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

286 U.S.

that the search and seizure, made without warrant and in
violation of his constitutional rights, were unreasonable;
also that his private dwelling had been entered contrary
to the inhibition of the Willis-Campbell Act. The trial
court overruled this motion, adjudged defendant guilty
and imposed fine and imprisonment. The Circuit Court
of Appeals affirmed the judgment. The cause comes up
by certiorari.
There is a suggestion, first made here, that the bill of
exceptions printed in the record was signed by the judge
out of time and therefore cannot be considered.
The trial took place during February, 1931. By proper
orders permission to file the bill of exceptions was extended to May 17th, 1931---Sunday. It was actually
signed on May 18th. Immediately following the signature of the judge the following appears-=" 5/18/31. This
Bill of Exceptions is agreed upon. Simon E. Sobeloff,
U. S. Attorney. James M. Hoffa, Assistant U. S.
Attorney."
The facts surrounding the preparation and signing have
been presented by affidavit and are not in dispute. Having prepared the bill, petitioner's -counsel duly lodged it
with the United States Attorney. For convenience of
the latter's office there were extensions of time to May
17th.- On May 16th, the Assistant District Attorney,
having just completed examination of the bill, went with
petitioner's counsel to the judge's chambers to secure his
signature. Failing to find him, they agreed to ask his
signature on Monday, May 18th. On that day, with the
express approval of all parties and in pursuance of the
earlier agreement, the judge signed the bill. The considerable delay in settling the bill followed the request of
the Assistant District Attorney in charge and was permitted for his convenience.
In these exceptional circumstances-the facts being undisputed-we think the petitioner is entitled to the bene-

TAYLOR v. UNITED STATES.
1

Opinion of the Court.

fit of the bill. And negativing any intent to relax the
general rule, we accept it as adequate and properly incorporated in the record. See Waldron v. Waldron, 156
U. S.361, 378.
Without undertaking to defend the challenged search
and seizure, the Solicitor General submits the-cause for
our decision. As the conviction was affirmed by the Circuit Court of Appeals, he prefers not to enter a confession
of error. He does, however, say that in his opinion, without regard to whether the garage constituted part of the
private dwelling, upon the facts shown, the entry by the
agents was wrongful and the search and seizure unreasonable. With this view we agree. The judgment below
must be reversed.
During the night, November 19th, 1930, a squad (six or
more) of prohibition agents, while returning to Baltimore City, discussed premises 5100 Curtis Avenue, of
which there had been complaints " over a period of about
a year." Having decided to investigate, they went at
once to the garage at that address, arriving there about
2:30 A. M. The garage-a small 'metal building-is on
the corner of a city lot and adjacent to the dwelling in
which petitioner Taylor resided. The two houses are
parts of the same premises.
As the agents approached the garage they got the odor
of whiskey coming from within. Aided by a searchlight,
they looked through a small opening.and saw many cardboard cases which they thought probably contained jars
of liquor. Thereupon they broke the fastening upon a
door, entered and found one hundred twenty-two cases of
whiskey. No one was within the place and there was no
reason to think otherwise. While the search p6rogressed.
Taylor came from his house and was put under arrest.
The search an'd seizure were undertaken with the hope nf
securing evidence upon which to indict and convict him.,

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Syllabus.

286 U.S.

Although over a considerable period numerous complaints concerning the use of these premises had been
received, the agents had made no'effort to obtain a warrant
for making a search. They had abundant opportunity so
to do and to proceed in an orderly way even after the odor
had emphasized their suspicions; there was no probability
of material change in the situation during the time necessary to secure such warrant. Moreover, a short period of
watching would have prevented any such possibility.
We think, in any view, the action of the agents was inexcusable and the seizure unreasonable. The evidence
was obtained unlawfully and should have been suppressed.
See Carrollv. United States, 267 U_ S. 132; United States
v. Lefkowitz, 285 U. S. 452, and cases there cited.Prohibition officers may rely on a distinctive odor as
a physical fact indicative of possible crime; but its presence alone does not strip the owner of a building of constitutional guarantees against unreasonable search. This
record does not make it necessary for us to discuss the
rule in respect of searches in connection with an arrest.
No offender was in the garage; the action of the agents
had no immediate connection with an arrest. The purpose was to secure evidence to support some future arrest.
Reversed.
UNITED STATES v. GEORGE OTIS SMITH.
CERTIFICATE FROM THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT
OF COLUMBIA.

No. 694. Argued March 21, 22, 1932.-Decided May 2, 1932.
1. A question of construction of the Rules of the Senate becomes
a judicial question when the right of an appointee- to office, chal-

lenged in a quo warranto.proceeding, depends upon it. P. 33.
2. In deciding such a question, great weight is to be attached to the
present constructioti of the rules'by the Senate itself; but that
construction, so far, at least, as arrived at after the events in
controversy, is not conclusive on the Court. Id.

