ADAMS v. MILLS.
374

Syllabus.

Fifth. Appellants also urge that § 211 is invalid as a
delegation of power to the State Highway Department
in violation of § 28, .Art. I, of the Texas Constitution and
of'the Fourteenth Amendment of the Federal Constitution. We think that the objection is untenable. We
agree with the District Court that the authority given
to the department is not to suspend the law, but is of'a
fact-finding and administrative nature, and hence is lawfully conferred. See Trimmier v. Carlton, 116 Tex. 572,
591; 296 S. W. 1070. Under § 2, special permits may be
granted by the department, for limited periods, for the
transportation "of such overweight or oversize or overlength commodities" when it is found that they " cannot be reasonably dismantled," or for the operation of
super-heavy and oversize equipment for the transportation of commodities ascertained to be of that character.
This authorization, in our judgment, does not involve an
unconstitutional delegation of legislative power. Union
Bridge Co. v. United States, 204 U. S. 364; United States
v. Grimaud, 220 U. S. 506; Red " C " Oil Co. v. North
Carolina, 222 U. S. 380, 394; Mutual Film Corp. v. Industrial Comm., 236 U. S. 230, 245; Hampton & Co. v.
United States, 276 U. S. 394.
The decree of the District Court is affirmed.
Decree affirmed.

ADAMS

ET AL.

V. MILLS, DIRECTOR GENERAL,
ET AL.

CERTIORARI

No. 581.

TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS
SEVENTH CIRCUIT.

FOR THE

Argued April 15, 18, 1932.-Decided May 23, 1932.

1. Commission merchants to whom, as factors, shipments of livestock
were consigned for sale and who were obliged to pay unlawful unloading charges lo carriers, for which they reimbursed themselves
"See Note 1.

398

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Syllabus.

286 U.S.

out of the sales of the livestock in their accounts with the consignors,
are proper parties to claim and sue for reparation, under §§ 8 and
16 (2) of the Interstate Commerce Act. P. 406.
2. The question whether a terminal service, in the particular facts
and circumstances, is reasonably to be treated as additional to or
as part of the service covered by the line-haul rate, is a question
upon which the findings of the Interstate Commerce Commission,
if supported by evidence, are conclusive. P. 407.
3. The evidence supports the findings of the Interstate Commerce
Commission that the unloading of livestock at the Chicago Stockyards is, in virtue of long practice and because of the special conditions there, a transportation service, though, ordinarily, unloading
is a duty of the consignee. P. 410.
4. The evidence also sustains the Commission's finding that the Chicago Stockyards Company, in unloading livestock into its pens, acts
as agent of the line-haul carriers. Id.
5. The Commission was justified by the facts in its conclusion that
line-haul carriers, which long had absorbed in their tariffs the
Stockyards Company's charge per car for unloading, and the Stockyards Company, were guilty of an unbair practice in forcing consignees to pay an increase of that charge, which the Stockyards
Company added to its tariff and which the line-haul carriers, though
refusing to join in or absorb it, added to their freight bills, whereby
it was collected for the Stockyards Company. P. 414.
6. The fact that the Stockyards Company is itself a common carrier
and published in its tariff the increased charge for the unloading
service, "as a carrier's agent," does not affect the above-stated
conclusion, since the question concerned the lawfulness of the practice and not the reasonableness of the charge, and one carrier may
act as agent for another. P. 415.
7. Evidence that while the line-haul railroads were under Federal
Control the extra charge was added to their freight bills, and that
the Stockyards Company collected the bills and paid over the entire
proceeds to the railroads, and that the railroads subsequently compensated the Stockyards Company, supports the finding that the
Director General participated in the "unjust and unreasonable
practice," within the meaning of § 206 (c) of the Transportation
Act. Pp. 415-416.
8. The Court will not entertain an objection which was not made
either to the Commission in the proceedings for reparation, or to
the court below in the action to enforce the reparation order.
P. 416.
51 F. (2d) 620, reversed.

ADAMS v. MILLS.
397

Argument for the Stockyards.

CERTIORARI, 284 U. S.614, to review the affirmance of a
judgment on a verdict directed for the defendants, in an
action to enforce a reparation order, brought by numerous
commission merchants against the Union Stockyard and
Transit Company and the Director General of Railroads.
For opinion of District Court, see 39 F. (2d) 80; C. C. A.,
Adams v. Mellon, 51 F. (2d) 620.

Mr. Franklin J.. Stransky, with whom Mr. Clair R.
Hillyer was on the brief, for petitioners.
This is an action in tort brought against respondents
as joint tort-feasors on account of the exaction from petitioners of unlawful charges by means of an unlawful
practice, resorted to by respondents in order to settle a
controversy between themselves with reference to the
extra charge.
The practice was unreasonable and unlawful for the
following reasons:
(1) The published tariffs of the line-haul carriers
undertook the complete transportation of live stock to
the Yards for a through rate, including the unloading.
The right of the shipper could be affected only by a
change in those tariffs.
(2) The extra charge was not justified either by the
published tariffs of the line-haul carriers or by the published tariffs of the Stock Yard Company.
(3) It is not consistent with the spirit and intent of
the Act to Regulate Commerce that the identical service
of unloading live stock, undertaken and charged for in
thd-published tariffs of the line-haul carriers, should be
also made the subject matter of the independent control
and charge of the agency of those carriers performing
that service.
Mr. Frank H. Towner, with whom Messrs. Silas H.
Strawn and Ralph M. Shaw were on the brief, for the
Union StockYard & Transit Co., respondent.

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Argument for the Stockyards.

286 U.S.

Under the theory of the law adopted by the Commission, the Yards Company was obliged to file with the
Commission its tariff containing its charges for loading
and unloading live stock. If this was so, the law required the Yards Company to assess, collect and retain
those charges. The reasonableness and propriety of
those charges was not in issue in any proceeding before
the Commission. Notwithstanding this, the order sued
on herein operated to reduce those charges and is, therefore, unlawful and void. Manufacturers Ry. Co. v.
United States, 246 U. S. 457; United States v. U. S. Y. &T. Co., 192 Fed. 330, 226 Fed. 286; Pennsylvania R. Co.
v. International Coal Co., 230 U. S. 184, 196; Armour &
Co. v. United States, 209 U. S. 56, 72; Davis v. Portland
Seed Co., 264 U. S. 403.
A finding of illegality in the charges of the Yards
Company or of the Director General was a prerequisite
to the Commission's order that any part of those charges
should be refunded to petitioners. Pennsylvania R. Co.
v. International Coal Co., 230 U. S. 184; Baltimore &
0. R. Co. v. United States, 277 U. S. 291; Florida East
rfoast R. Co. v. United States, 234 U. S. 167.
Condemnation must be based upon an adequate record.
Baltimore & 0. R. Co. v. United States, 277 U. S. 291.
The only effect of the order made, if complied with, would
be to reduce respondents' tariff charges. This can not
be done through indirection, but must result from a definite finding that those charges are unlawful. There
is no such finding, nor would the record have supported
one, if made. It follows that the practice of collecting
those lawful charges could not have been unlawful. Interstate Commerce Comm. v. Stickney, 215 U. S. 98;
Interstate Commerce Comm. v. Chicago, B. & Q. R. Co.,
186 U. S. 320.
The tariffs constituted notice to the world that during
the reparation period, the shipper would be required to

ADAMS v. MILLS.
397

Argument for the Stockyards.

pay 25 cents jer car for the loading or unloading of his
stock, this being the difference between the total amount
of the Yards Company charge and the absorption by the
Director General. Louisville & N. R. Co. v. Maxwell,
237 U. S. 94; Keogh v. C. & N. W. R. Co., 260 U. S. 156;
Louisville & N. R. Co. v. Central Iron Works, 265 U. S.
59; New York Central R. Co. v. York & Whitney Co.,
256 U. S. 406; PennsylvaniaR. Co. v. International Coal
Co., 230 U. S. 184.
The duty to load and unload was an obligation of the
shipper or consignee. Even if this duty rested upon the
line-haul carriers or the Director General, there can still
be no recovery in this case from the Yards Company.
Such a holding, if proper, would have required the payment of the charges of the Yards Company by the linehaul carriers or the Director General. The Yards Company, therefore, has only received an amount which had
to be paid either by the shipper, the consignee or the
Director General and there can be no recovery from it.
Covington v. Keith, 139 U. S. 129, distinguished.
Claims for reparation before the Commission and in
court must be brought in the names of the real parties
in interest. Who may maintain a suit is a matter of
law. Petitioners do not have such an interest as entitles
them to maintain this suit, either in their own behalf or
as factors in behalf of the shippers. They neither paid
nor bore the charges sued for and were not damaged.
Mackay v. Randolph Macon Coal Co., 178 Fed. 881;
Fitkin v. Century Oil Co., 16 F. (2d) 22; Spiller v. Atchison, T. & S. F. Ry. Co., 253 U. S. 117; Phillips Co. v.
Grand Trunk W. Ry. Co., 236 U. S. 663. They are not
parties in interest. Missouri Portland Cement Co. v.
Director General, 88 I. C. C. 492; Southern Pacific Co.
v. Darnell-Taenzer Co., 245 U. S. 531; Louisville & N.
R. Co. v. Sloss-Sheffield Co., 269 U. S. 217; Illinois Central R. Co. v. Vcst, 39 F. (2d) 658; Generai, etc., Corp.

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Argument for the Stockyards.

286 U.S.

v. Southern Ry., 169 I. C. C. 83; Parsons v. C. & N. W.
Ry. Co., 167 U. S. 447; Knudson Co. v. Michigan Central
R. Co., 148 Fed. 968; Southern Pine Lumber Co. v.
Southern Ry. Co., 14 I. C. C. 195; Pennsylvania R. Co. v.
InternationalCoal Co., 230 U. S. 184; Spiller v. Atchison,
T. & S. F. Ry. Co., 253 U. S. 117; Davis v. Portland
Seed Co., 254 U. S. 403. Distinguishing: Consolidated
Cut Stone Co. v. Atchison, T. & S. F. Ry. Co., 39 F. (2d)
661; New York Central R. Co. v. York Co., 256 U. S.
406; Kansas City Sou. Ry. Co. v. United States, 252 U. S.
178; Interstate Commerce Comm. v. Stickney, 215 U. S.
98.
Petitioners can not recover in this case as factors or
agents for the shippers. Hamilton v. Dillon, 11 Fed.
Cas. 332; Smith &Son v. Blohm, 159 Iowa 592; Progress
Farms v. Chicago Horse Sales Co., 153 Wis. 249; Beardsley v. Schmidt, 120 Wis. 405; North American Co. v. St.
Louis & S. F. R. Co., D. C. U. S., Eastern Division, E. D.
Mo., (unreported); Memphis Freight Bureau v. St. Louis
& S. F. Ry. Co., 57 I. C. C. 212.
The Yards Company never was under federal control.
Notwithstanding, the Commission has awarded reparation in the order sued on herein against the Yards Company with respect to shipments which moved intrastate
within Illinois.
The award of reparation made by the Commission
herein was made in two separate proceedings before it.
In one of those proceedings, the record fails to show that
petitioners were parties complainant and how much
reparation was awarded in each of the two proceedings.
The order sued on is invalid in so far as it awards reparation in that proceeding in which the record fails to show
that petitioners were complainants, and since there is
no proof as to how much of the total award is thus invalid, there can be no recovery at all.

ADAMS v. MILLS.
397

Argument for the Director General.

The Commission did not have before it any competent
evidence upon which it could determine the amount of
the reparation awarded by it and the order awarding
such reparation is therefore void.
The reparation is void because the Commission, in
making it, considered evidence not in the record before it.
Messrs. Sidney F. Andrews and A. A. McLaughlin for
the Director General, respondent.
The published tariffs of the line-haul carriers covered
transportation to the stock yards, but did not include
unloading the stock.
The Yards Company was not the agent of the linehaul carriers in performing any transportation service or
in publishing and enforcing its tariffs. United States v.
Union Stock Yards & Transit Co., 226 U. S. 286.
The Yards Company was a common carrier and required to file and maintain its tariffs. In its tariff increasing its charges, it recited in parentheses that its
charges were "as a carrier's agent." The alleged agency
was repudiated and did not exist, and the Commission
so found.
The evidence was insufficient to show the duty of loading and unloading live stock at the stock yards was that
of the line-haul carriers or that the line-haul carriers
should assume the expense thereof.
The stock yards were not the terminals of the line-haul
carriers.
The Yards Company was a common carrier subject to
the jurisdiction of the Interstate Commerce Commission,
and its tariffs prescribing charges for its transportation
services furnish the legal rate therefor, which it was bound
to collect. United States v. Union Stock Yards & Transit
Co., 226 U. S. 286; Chicago Livestock Exchange v. Atchison, T. & S. F. Ry. Co., 52 I. C. C. 209; s. c., 58 I. C. C.

404

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Argument for the Director General.

286 U.S.

164; Louisville & N. Ry. Co. v. Maxwell, 237 U. S. 94;
Keogh v. C. & N. W. Ry. Co., 260 U. S. 156; Louisville
& N. Ry. Co. v. Central Iron Works, 265 U. S. 59.
Loading and unloading was a transportation service for
which the carrier performing the service was entitled to
compensation and for which the shipper was bound to
pay. Covington Stock Yards v. Keith, 139 U. S. 128;
United States v. Union Stock Yards & Transit Co., 226
U. S. 286; Act to Regulate Commerce, § 1, par. 3; Chicago.
M. & St. P. Ry. Co. v. Wisconsin, 238 U. S. 491.
The increased charge of 25 cents per car was collected
from the shipper by the Yards Company and the Circuit
Court of Appeals correctly so held.
The making and collecting of the separate charge for
unloading was not an unlawful or unreasonable practice.
Interstate Commerce Comm. v. Chicago, B. & Q. R. Co.,
186 U. S. 320; Interstate Commerce Comm. v. Stickney,
215 U. S. 98; Act to Regulate Commerce, § 6, pars. 1, 7.
Congress did not consent that the agent appointed by
the President might be proceeded against before the Interstate Commerce Commission for a tort, but only for
damage resulting from the "collection or enforcement by
or through the President during the period of federal
control of rates, fares, charges, regulations and practices."
Davis v. Donovan, 265 U. S. 257; Transportation Act,
1920, § 206-c.
The absorption tariffs of the line-haul carriers furnish
the measure of their obligation and legal right to contribute to the payment of the Yards Company's charges.
Act to Regulate Commerce, § 1, par. 6; § 6, par. 7.
The decision of the District Court that these petitioners
had no right to maintain this action was correct. Adams
v. Mellon, 51 F. (2d) 620.
The only party entitled to recover reparation is the
one who paid and bore the charges on account of which
recovery is sought. Pennsylvania R. Co. v. International

ADAMS v. MILLS.
397

Opinion of the Court.

Coal Co., 230 U. S. 184; Spiller v. Atchison, T. & S. F.

Ry. Co., 253 U. S. 117; Parsons v. C. & N. W. Ry. Co.,
167 U. S. 447; Meeker v. Lehigh Valley R. Co., 236
U. S. 412.
Messrs. Daniel W. Knowlton and J. Stanley Payne, by
leave of Court, filed a brief on behalf of the Interstate
Commerce Commission as amicus curiae.
MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This action was brought, on December 10, 1928, in the
federal court for northern Illinois to enforce an order of
the Interstate Commerce Commission for reparations in
the sum of $140,001.25, and interest. The plaintiffs, 103
in number,' members of the Chicago Live Stock Exchange,
are commission merchants engaged in the business of
buying and selling livestock at the Union Stock Yards,
Chicago. The defendants are the Union Stock Yard and
Transit Company, owner of the yards, and the Director
General of Railroads, as agent of the President, being
the officer against whom suit may be brought, under § 206
of the Transportation Act, 1920, 41 Stat. 461, on causes of
action arising out of Federal control. The award was
made on account of an extra charge of 25 cents a car for
unloading livestock received at the yards from about
174,000 different shippers, during the period of Federal
control, December 28, 1917 to February 29, 1920. The
Commission held that the charge had been exacted under
an unlawful practice; and awarded reparation to the
plaintiffs, who as consignees had paid the charge found
unlawful. See Chicago Live Stock Exchange v. Atchison,
' This is the figure stated in the opinions of both courts below, and
in the briefs of counsel. The namas of only. 101 plaintiffs appear in
the petition in the District Court and in the motion to amend the
petition, as set out in the Transcript of Record.

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

286 U.S.

T. & S. F. Ry. Co., 52 1. C. C. 209; 58 I. C. C. 164; 100
I. C. C. 266; 144 I. C.,C. 175.
The case was tried in the District Court before a jury
upon the evidence introduced before the Commission and
additional evidence introduced by the parties at the trial.
At the close of the evidence, each defendant moved, on
many grounds, for a directed verdict. The District Judge
granted the motions on the ground that the plaintiffs had
no such interest in the claims for reparations as would
entitle them to maintain an action under § 8 and § 16 (2)
of the Interstate Commerce Acf. 39F. (2d) 80. The Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed'the judgment; but, not
being entirely satisfied that the reason assigned by the
District Court was cofrect, rested its decision on the
ground that the exaction of the extra 25-cent charge was
a lawful practice. 51 F. (2d) 620. ThisCourt granted
a writ of certiorari. 284 U. S. 614.
First. The defendants contend that even if the exaction of the extra 25-cent charge was unlawful, the plaintiffs are not entitled to recover. The argument is that
under § 8 of the Interstate Commerce Act-the liability of
the common carrier is "to the person or persons injured
thereby for the full amount of damages sustained in consequence of any such violation "; that before any party
can recover under the Act he must show not merely the
wrong of the carrier, but that the wrong has in fact operated to the plaintiff's injury; that here the award is to
the plaintiffs individually, not as agents for the shippers;
and that individually they suffered no pecuniary loss,
since they paid the charges as commission merchants and
reimbursed themselves for these, as for other, charges.
from the proceeds of the sale of livestock, remitting to
their principals only the balance remaining. We think
the argument unsound, for the reasons, among others,
stated in Southern Pacific Co. v. Darnell-TaenzerLumber
Co., 245 U. S. 531, and Louisville & Nashville R. Co. v.

ADAMS v. MILLS.
397

Opinion of the Court.

Sloss-Sheffield Co., 269 U. S. 217, 234-238. See also
Missouri Portland Cement Co. v. Director General, 88
I. C. C. 492, 495,496; Doughty-McDonald Grocery Co. v.
Atchison, T. & S. F. Ry. Co., 155 I. C. C. 47, 49; California Fruit Exchange v. American. Railway Express Co.,
155 I. C. C. 105, 107.
The plaintiffs were the consignees .of the shipments and
entitled to possession of them upon payment of the lawful charges. If the defendants exacted from them an unlawful charge, the exaction was a tort, for which the
plaintiffs were entitled, as for other torts, to compensation from the wrongdoer. Acceptance of the shipments
would have rendered them personally liable to the carriers if the merchandise had been delivered without payment of the full amount lawfully due. New York Central
R. Co. v. York & Whitney Co., 256 U. S.406, 407, 408.
Compare Union Pac. R. Co. v. American Smelting &
Rig. Co., 202 Fed. 720, 723. As they would have been
liable for an undercharge, they may recover for an overcharge. In contemplation of law the claim for damages
arose at the time the extra charge was paid. See Southern
Pacific Co. v. Darnel!-Taenzer Lumber Co., 245 U. S.
531, 534. Neither the fact of subsequent reimbursement
by the plaintiffs from funds of the shippers, nor the disposition which may hereafter be made of the damages recovered, is of any concern to the wrongdoers. This proceeding does not involve a controversy between the consignors and the consignees; and the carriers can not be
allowed to import one into it. Compare Louisville &
Nashville R. Co. v. Slogs-Sheffield Steel & Iron Co., 269
U. S. 217, 238. The rights of the shippers in the proceeds of the action will not be affected by our decision.
Compare Jennison Bros. & Co. v. Dixon, 133 Minn. 268;
158 N. W. 398. Those rights might have been asserted
by intervention in the proceedings before the Commission. They may still be asserted independently in appro-

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

286 U.S.

priate proceedings later. The plaintiffs have suffered injury within the meaning of § 8 of the Interstate Commerce Act; and the purpose of that section would be defeated if the tortfeasors were permitted to escape reparation by a plea that the ultimate incidence of the injury
was not upon those who were compelled in the first instance to pay the unlawful charge.
An additional reason for permitting this action is that
the relation between the parties to the shipments in question was that of principal and factor, not simply that of
consignor and consignee. The Commission found that,
as commission merchants, the plaintiffs were empowered,
by well-established usage, to pay the freight and related
charges; to file claims for overcharges; and to settle with
the carriers therefor. Being factors for the shippers, it was
not only their right but their duty to resist illegal exactions. This duty did not, as the District Court suggested,
terminate upon remission of the proceeds of the sale of the
livestock, less the charges in fact paid. It persists, with
the assent of the principals, until the claim for reparation
shall have been prosecuted to a successful conclusion. It
is urged, on behalf of the defendants, that the order of
-the Commission ran in favor of the plaintiffs, not as factors, but as individuals. The contention is contrary to-the
fact.2 But the form of the order is without importance.
'The finding of the Commission in its report of June 2, 1925, was
that the parties of record who" paid the charges" on the shipments
involved "have been damaged in the amount of such charges and are
severally entitled to reparation, as factors and agents for the shippers." 100 I. C. C. 266, 270. The, fact that "the charge which
was paid by the commission merchant was subsequently charged
back and collected from the consignors," the report said, "would
not affect the right of the complainant consignees to awards of reparation. There is a direct and well established relation between the
complaining members of the exchange and their shippers by which
the former are fully authorized to present these claims and seek
awards of reparation in their own names as factors and agents for

ADAMS v. MILLS.
397

409

Opinion of the Court.

The Commission has recognized the right of a factor to
maintain in his own name an action in the interest of his
principal. See Memphis Freight Bureau v. St. Louis &
San Francisco R. Co., 57 I. C. C. 212; Texas Livestock
Shippers Protective League v. Director General, 139
I. C. C. 448. No useful end would be served by requiring
the joining of 174,000 shippers in this proceeding; and § 8
of the Interstate Commerce Act is not to be so construed.
Compare Spiller v. Atchison, T. & S. F. Ry. Co., 253 U. S.
117, 134, 135.
Second. The defendants challenge the Commission's
holding that the extra charge of 25 cents made to the
shippers was an unlawful practice. The conclusion rests
upon the findings that the Stock Yards are, in effect,
terminals of the line-haul carriers; and that the service
of unloading the livestock there is a part of transportation. That the yards are, in effect, terminals of the railroads is clear. They are in fact used as terminals; and
necessarily so. Whether the unloading in the yards was
a part of transportation was not a pure question of law
to be determined by merely reading the tariffs. Compare Great Northern Ry. Co. v. Merchants Elevator Co.,
259 U. S. 285, 294. The decision of the question was dependent upon the determination of certain facts, including -the history of the Stock Yards and their relation to
suct shippers. . . . The right of factors in their representative
cApacity to recover reparation in their own names for' unlawful and
unreasonable charges is settled." Ibid., at 269, 270.
That the subsequent order of the Commission, of December 12,
1927, fixing the amounts due the several complainants, made no
reference- to their position as factors is without significance. The
order expressly incorporated the report; and in the report the
Commission had 'already determined that the complainants, as factors, were entitled to recover in their own names. Nor is the form
of the petition in the District Court material. The plaintiffs' right
of recovery in this proceeding was defined by the finding and order
of the Commission in their favor.

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

286 U.S

the line-haul carriers; the history of the unloading charge
at these yards; and the action of the parties in relation
thereto. If there was evidence to sustain the Commission's findings on these matters, its conclusion that the
collection of the extra charge from the shippers was an
unreasonable and unlawful practice must be sustained.
Atchison, T. & S. F. Ry. Co. v. United States, 232 U. S.
199, 221; Los Angeles Switching Case, 234 U. S. 294, 310,
311.
Third. There was ample evidence to sustain.the findings
of the Commission that the unloading of livestock at the
stockyards was a part of the transportation provided for
in the tariffs of the line-haul carriers.
(1) Throughout the United States, the duty of unloading carload freight rests ordinarily upon the consignee.
See National Lumber Dealers' Assn. v. Atlantic Coast
Line R. Co., 14 I. C. C. 154, 160. But continuously for
fifty years prior to 1917, livestock had been unloaded at
Chicago by the Stock' Yards Company, without charge
therefor to the shipper or consignee.8 Compare Covington Stock-Yards Co. v. Keith, 139 U. S. 128, 136. For
this service the company received 25 cents a car; but not
from the shipper. Its charge was 'paid by the line-haul
carriers, whose tariffs read: "Carriers as shown will pay
the Union Stock Yards and Transit Company's charges
as follows: Unloading (in cents per car) 25."
The history of the practice is this. The Union Stock
Yard and Transit Company was organized in 1865 by the
$Transportation Act, 1920, § 418, 41 Stat. 486, enacted after the
period .here in question, provided that thereafter, with ceriain
exceptions: "Transportation wholly by railroad of ordinary livestock
in car-load lots destined to or received at public stockyards shall
include all necessary service of unloading and relloading en route,
delivery at public stockyards of inbound shipments into suitable pens,
and receipt and loading at such yards of outbound shipments, without
extra. charge therefor to the *shipper,censignee or owner... .

ADAMS v. MILLS.
397

Opinion of the Court.

railroads theft entering Chicago; and until 1894 its shares
were largely held by them. The company constructed
stockyards and tracks connecting with those of the linehaul carriers. After 1897 the company's railroad property was operated under lease by the Chicago Junction
Railway Company, which received from the line-haul carriers compensation for the use of its tracks. The linehaul carriers, using their own locomotives and crews,
brought all inbound carload shipments of livestock to the
unloading chutes of the Stock Yards Company; and collected from the shippers a terminal or switching charge
of $2 per car, in addition to the line-haul rate.'
From the time when the cars were placed at the chutes,
the course of business was substantially as follows: Employees of the Stock Yards Company unloaded the livestock into pens located upon the company's property and
leased by it to the commission merchants who handled
the stock for the shippers and who were invariably the
consignees of the shipments. The Yards Company notified the commissionmen of the arrival of the shipment,
prepared the official record of the receipt of the livestock,
the contents of the car, and the condition of the animalsthe record used by the line-hatil carriers. After securing
from the Western Weighing Association Bureau (a bureau
of the line-haul carriers) data concerning the actual
weight of the livestock, the company made a corrected
record of the freight charges due from the commissionmen. These charges it collected for the line-haul carriers; and, in consideration of the prompt release of the
livestock without surrender of the bill of lading and without payment of the charges, it guaranteed them. The
'The imposition of the $2 charge was the subject of much litigation
before the Commission and the courts. Interstate Commerce Comm.
v. Chicago, B. & Q. R. Co., 186 U. S. 320; Interstate Commerce
Comm. v. Stickney, 215 U. S. 98. Compare Chicago Live Stock
Exchange v. Chicago Great Western Ry. Co., 10 I. C. C. 428.

412

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

286 t.S.

practice was for the company to make collection from the
consignees of all charges twice a week; and once a week
to pay the whole amount thus collected to the railroads.
Once a month the railroads paid the Yards Company its
charges for unloading.
(2) Prior to the decision in United States v. Union
Stock Yard & Transit Co., 226 U. S. 286 (December 9,
1912), the unloading charges of the Yards Company had
not been contained in any tariff filed by it with the Commission. After that decision the company filed with the
Commission its Tariff No. 1, effective May 30, 1913, stating its charge to be 25 cents a car. That tariff remained
in effect, without any attempt to change it, or the practice under it, until the Yards Company filed a so-called
Tariff No. 2, to become effective May 21, 1917, which
recited: "The charge made by this company for the service (as a carrier's agent) of . . . unloading livestock at
the Union Stock Yards at Chicago, Illinois, is as follows:
For Wnloading 50 cents (per car of any capacity)." '
The line-haul railroads did not join in the Yards Company's Tariff No. 2, or authorize it. They did not file new
tariffs embodying the extra 25-cent charge. And they
refused to absorb the extra charge. Upon such refusal,
the Yards Company, in order to compel payment by the
carriers, adopted the practice of withholding the sum demanded from the freight charges collected for them. In
retaliation, the carriers threatened to collect those charges
for themselves. The result of this controversy was an
arrangement arrived at between the railroads and the
Yards Company, whereby the former added the disputed
charge to their freight bills, and the latter collected it
from the shippers, despite their protest. These bills did
not indicate that the extra charge imposed was one of the
5

The tariff originally filed by the Stock Yards Company, May 30,
1913, did not contain the words in parenthesis, "as a carrier's agent."

ADAMS v. MILLS.
Opinion of the Court.

397

Yards Company to the shipper.' As theretofore, the
whole amount collected was turned over by the company
to the railroads.
Meanwhile, the Yards Company, contending that because of certain changes, made in its relation with the
Chicago Junction Railway it was no longer a common
carrier of interstate commerce, filed with the Commission
a supplement to its tariffs, to be effective September 1,
1917, in which it undertook to cancel all its tariffs. The
proposed supplement was suspended by the Commission
under § 15 (7) of the Interstate Commerce Act; and, before any decision had been reached in the suspension proceedings, the Chicago Live Stock Exchange filed its complaint against the Yards Company and the line-haul railroads challenging the extra 25-cent charge. The proceedings were consolidated. Soon thereafter, the railroads passed under Federal control; and the Director General, who continued the arrangement instituted by the
carriers with the Yards Company, became a party to the,
proceedings before the Commission. That arrangement
continued to the end of the period of Federal control, as
the order of the Commission declaring the pra~tice unlawful was not entered until July 15, 1920, 58 I. C. C. 164.
(3) Thus, by the unbroken usage of fifty years the
payment by shippers of livestock of the line-haul rate to
Chicago, plus the terminal charge of $2, had covered all
services performed in connection with the shipment up to
'The freight bills "were'made out upon forms, headed "United
States Railroad
gether with the
only the total
* Charges." The
follows: "Total

Administration-Director General of Railroads," toname of the carrier; and, so far as appears, showed
charges, entered in a column marked "Freight
way-bills, however, contained itemized charges, as
charges on Original Way-bill; " " Feed Charges

at . . ."; "Yardage

at . . ."; and "Inspection

at ....... In the

last column was entered the terminal charge of $2; in the column
for "yardage" was the entry, " Unabsorbed Unloading-25c."

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

286 U.S.

and including the placing of the stock in the pens of the
commissionmen. The Commission so found; and this
Court has heretofore so recognized. See Interstate Commerce Comm. v. Chicago, B. & Q. R. Co., 186 U. S. 320,
327, 329, 336; Interstate Commerce Comm. v. Stickney,
215 U. S. 98, 108. Beyond dispute, the Yards Company,
in the services which it performed, regarded itself as the
carriers' agent. This appears not only from the previous
course of business, but from the terms of its second tariff,
from its initial conduct with respect to collection of the
additional charge and from its attempt to cancel all its
tariffs. The carriers for years had .p0aid the Yards Company all its charges; and there was testimony that both
the $2 terminal'charge and the line-haul rates were predicated upon such payment. The company's charges, moreover, which constituted its sole compensation, covered
services, other than the mere unloading of cars,--services
which were obviously performed for the benefit of the
carriers rather than the shippers.
Whether, upon the company's demand for increased
compensation, the carriers, under their tariffs, could lawfully join with it in shifting the burden of such increase to
the shippers depended~upon the question of fact whether
the unloading of cars was the proper duty of the railroads
or of the consignees. The basis of the usual practice requiring the consignee to unload carload freight is that the
consignee can do it more effectively than the carrier. See
National Lumber Dealers' Assn. v. Atlantic Coast Line
R. Co., 14 1. C. C. 154, 160. The Commission found that,
in view of the congested conditions in the Chicago stockyards and the great volume of traffic, it would have been
physically impracticable, if not impossible, for the consignees themselves to unload their own shipments. Certainly the Commission could reasonably determine -upon
this evidence that the conditions with respect to livestock in Chicago justified a different rule there from that

ADAMS v. MILLS.
397

Opinion of the Court.

obtaining in other places; that, in fact, a different practice had prevailed; and that no reason existed for permitting a departure from that practice.
Fourth. It is urged by the defendants that the Stock
Yards Company had been found by this Court to be a
common carrier, United States v. Union Stock Yard &
Transit Co., 226 U. S. 286; that this finding was adhered
to by the Commission in the present proceeding despite
the claim of a change in conditions; that as a common
carrier the company was compelled to publish its tariffs;
that the tariff, as published, has not been found by the
Commission to be unreasonable; and that its collection,
therefore, was mandatory and hence could not be unlawful. But the tariff, as published, authorized only the collection of the charge as a carrier's agent. The question
at issue is not the reasonableness of the charge, but the
lawfulness of the practice, jointly pursued by the railroads and the company, of collecting the extra charge
from the shipper. The reasonableness of the charge itself, and the complementary question whether the railroads should be required to absorb it, were in no way
involved before the Commission; and that tribunal properly made no finding with respect thereto. Nor was the
issue affected in any manner by the status of the Yards
Company as a common carrier. It did not follow from
such status that it could not act as an agent of the linehaul carriers; nor that it was entitled to collect a part of
its charges from the shippers. Compare Missouri Pacific
R. Co. v. Reynolds-Davis Grocery Co., 268 U. S. 366;
Union Stockyards Co. v. United States, 169 Fed. 404, 406.
Fifth. Certain additional grounds of defense, not considered by either of the. courts below, are pressed here.
The Director General urges that the terms of Congressional consent do not permit.him to be proceeded against
before the Commission for a tort, Compare Missouri Pa-

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

286 U.S.

cific R. Co. v. Ault, 256 U. S. 554, 559, but only for
damage resulting from the "collection or enforcement by
or through the President during the period of Federal
control of rates, fares, charges, classifications, regulations
or practices . . . which were unjust, unreasonable, unjustly discriminatory, or unduly or unreasonably prejudicial." Transportation Act, 1920, 41 Stat. 462, c. 91,
§ 206 (c). The contention that the acts of the Director
General, found by the Commission, did not in any view
constitute an "unjust or unreasonable practice" within
the meaning of this provision, is manifestly untenable.
The contention is really directed against the Commission's finding that the Director General participated in
the practice. Ample support for this finding is furnished
by the conceded fact that the extra charge was added by
the railroads to their freight bills, and by the testimony
that these bills were first collected by the Yards Company,
that the entire proceeds were paid over to the railroads,
and that the railroads subsequently compensated the company.
Sixth. The Stock Yards Company urges several independent grounds of defense, not joined in by the Director
General. It is argued that the order sued on includes
awards of reparation against the company on purely, intrastate shipments moving during the period of Federal
control; that the jurisdiction conferred on the Commission by Transportation Act, 1920, 41 Stat. 462, c. 91,
§ 206 (c), to grant reparation on claims arising out of
intrastate traffic during Federal control does not permit
the inclusion of such elements in an award against the
Yards Company, which was never taken over by the Government; and that, the petitioners not having established
by proper proof to what extent the award made was
valid, the order must be declared invalid as a whole. The
record, however, does not show that this objection was

NORTH AMERICAN OIL v. BURNET.
397

417'

Syllabus.

urged either before the Commission or in the District
Court; and it accordingly will not be entertained here.
The remaining contentions of the Yards Company relate to the sufficiency of the complaint in Docket No.
9977, to the comjetency.of the evidence upon which the
amount of the reparation awarded to each complainant
was determined; and to a claim that the Commission
acted upon evidence not in the record We have considered these objections; and find them to be without merit.
The judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals is reversed; and the case is remanded to the Districi Court
with direction to enter judgment for the amount of reparation awarded, with interest, and for reasonable
attorney's fees to be 'fixed by it.
Reversed.,
MR. JUsTICE BUTLER is of the opinion that plaintiffs
are not "persons injured" within the intention of § 8
and that the assailed "practice," if it is such within the
meaning of the Act, was not unreasonable and that therefore the judgment should be affirmed.

NORTH AMERICAN OIL CONSOLIDATED v.
BURNET, COMMISSIONER OF' INTERNAL
REVENUE.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 575. Argued April 20, 21, 1932.-Decided May 23 4932.
1. Section 13 (c) of the Revenue Act of 1916, obligin receivers
"operating the property and business of corporations' to make
returns of net income "as and for such corporations," applied only
where a receiver was in complete control of the entire properties
and business of the corporation; otherwise the r turn must be
made by the corporation. P. 422.

