NIXON v. CONDON.
70

Syllabus.

that the suit was not strictly one for the forfeiture of the
vessel, but one for the enforcement of money penalties
charged upon the vessel by reason of the misconduct of
the master. On this ground it distinguished its own decision in the case of the Ruth Mildred, announced at the
same time, and gave judgment for the Government.
For that reason as well as for the broader reasons stated
in General Motors Acceptance Corp. v. United- States,
ante, p. 49, and United States v. The Ruth Mildred, ante,
p. 67, the decree will be affirmed.
Affirmed.

NIXON v. CONDON

ET AL.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIFTH CIRCUIT.

No. 265.

Argued January 7, 1932. Reargued March 15, 1932.Decided May 2, 1932.

A statute of Texas provided: " every political party in the State
through its State Executive Committee shall have the power to
prescribe the qualifications of its own members and shall in its
own way determine who shall be qualified to vote or otherwise participate in such political party . . ." Acting under this statute,
and not under any authorization from the convention of their party,
the Executive Committee of the Democratc Party in Texas adopted
a resolution that only white Democrats should participate in the
primary elections, thereby excluding negroes. Held:
1. Whatever inherent power a state political party has to determine the qualifications of its members resides in the party convention and not in any committee. P. 84.
2. The power exercised by, the Executive Committee in this
instance was not the power of the party as a voluntary organization but came from the statute. P. 85.
3. The committee's action was therefore state action within the
meaning of the Fourteenth Amendment. P. 88.
4. The resulting discrimination violates that Amendment. P 89.
5. Whether in given circumstances parties or their committees
are agencies of government within the Fourteenth or the Fifteenth

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Argument for Petitioner.

286 US.

Amendment is a question which this Court must determine for
itself. P. 88.
49 F. (2d) 1012, reversed.
CERTIORARI, 284 U. S. 601, to review the affirmance of
a judgment dismissing the complaint, 34 F. (2d) 464, in
an action for damages against judges of a primary election
who refused to allow the plaintiff to vote.

Messrs. James Marshall and Nathan R. Margold, with
whom Messrs. Arthur B. Spingarn, and Fred C. Knollenberg were on the brief, for petitioner.
The power of respondents to deny petitioner's right to
vote at the primary election was derived from the resolution of the State Democratic Executive Committee
adopted pursuant to authority granted by c. 67 of the
Laws of 1927. Both the statute and the resolution
adopted thereunder violated the Fourteenth Amendment
because they authorized and worked A0 --pification basec'
on color.
If the Democratic Legislature of Texas could not con.stitutionally forbid negroes to vote at primaries in view
of the decision of this Court in Nixon v. Herndon, 273
U. S. 536, it could nevertheless with a feeling of assurance
entrust to the Democratic State Committee power to enact such prohibition and aoIieve the same end.
That it was the legislative intention to accomplish this
purpose and to evade and nullify that decision appears
from the face of the enactment. The statiute expressly
indicates that the new Art. 3107 was being substituted for
the one held unconstitutional, in order to take care of
the "emergency" created by the decision 'inNixon v.
Herndon. What could this emergency be' if not 'that
negroes would be able to vote at the next primary election unless some new method were devised to exclude
them? By providing that the Executive Committee
"shall in its own way determine who shall be qualified to

NIXON v. CONDON.
73

Argument for Petitioner.

vote," the Act plainly delegated authority to the committee to determine among other things that only white
Democrats should be entitled to vote. Qui facit per
alium facit per se.
Inherent power in the political party to prescribe the
qualifications of its own members and those entitled to
vote at party primary elections was necessarily superseded by this statute.
The new statute'did not purport to 'Withdraw legislative sovereignty but merely to substitute a new provision
in place of the one declared unconstitutional.
Decisions of the Texas courts demnstrate that the
party in Texas and its executive committee had ceased
to have any inherent power to prescribe qualifications of'
voters at Democratic primary elections long before the
resolution here in question was adopted. Briscoe v. Boyle,
286 S. W. 275; Love v. Wilcox, 119 Tex. 256; 28 S. W.
(2d) 515.
Whether this be regarded as the creation of a new
power or the recognition and restoration of an old one,
the existence of the power itself would be necessarily and
wholly dependent upon the force of the statute and hence
would be a statutory power, not an inherent one.
Moreover, there is no reason why a legislative "recognition," even of an existing inherent power, should not
turn the inherent power into a statutory one. Clancy v.
Clough, 30 S.W. (2d) 569; Love v. Taylor, 8 S. W. (2d)
795; Fribergv. Scurry, 33 S.W. (2d) 762.
The Texas cases, with one exception, all confirm our
contention that the party executive committees are
agencies of the State, subject to legislative coitrol and
endowed with powers by the Legislature. The exception is White v. Lubbock, 30 S. W. (2d) 72. where the
court held that the party had inherent power to exclude
negroes from voting. It was recognized by this Court in
the Home Telephone & Telegraph case, 227 U. S. 278,

76

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Argument for Petitioner.

286 U.S.

that the local conception of what amounts to state action
may differ from the national conception of it, So here the
holding of the state court that political parties have inherent power to exclude negroes from primary elections,
and in .so acting were not exercising state powers, is not
binding upon this Court.
Even if the Executive Committee exceeded the powers
delegated to it by the Legislature, its action, though ultra
•vires, constituted state action in violation of the Fourteenth Amendment, because it .authorized and worked a
classification based on color. Home Tel. & Tel. Co.
v. Los Angeles, 227 U. S. 278; Raymond v. Chicago Traction Co., 207 U..S. 20; Fidelity & Deposit Co. v. Tafoya,
270 U. S. 426. Cf. Yick Wo v. Hopkins, 118 U. S. 356.
Although the primary machinery was originally the private affair of the party, it has become absorbed by the
State, which has exercised its sovereignty over primary
elections with the "rules and regulations laid down in
minute and cumbersome detail." Briscoe v. Boyle, 286
S. W. 275; Primary Elections, Merriam & Overacker, 1928
ed., p. 140; 23 Mich. L. Rev.279; Bliley v. West, 42 F.
(2d) 101; s. c., 33 r. (2d), 177; Commonwealth v. Willcox, 111 Va. 849, 859; Love v. Wilcox, 119 Tex. 256; 28
S. W. (2d) 515; Clancy v. Clough, 30 S. W. (2d) 569.
Those cases hold that the party committees are so much
controlled by state authority that they are without power
to vary on their own initiative the qualifications prescribed
for voters, candidates or committee members.
The State can not perform by an agency an act which
it could not accomplish i.1 its own name. Williams v.
Bruffy, 96 U. S. 176; Ford v. Surget, 97/ U. S. 594; King
Mfg. Co. v. Augusta, 277 U. S. 100; Home TNl. & Tel: Co.
v. Los Angeles, 227 U. S. 278; Standard Scale Co. v. Farrell, 249 U. S. 571.
Respondents by reason of their Dffice as judges of election derived their power to deny the petitioner the right

NIXON v. CONDON.
73

Argument for Petitioner.

to vote at the primary election from the statutes of the
State. In applying that power to a state purpose in such
a way as to work a color classification they violated the
Fourteenth Amendment, irrespective of c. 67 of the Laws
of 1927 and the resolution of the Democratic State Executive Committee.
The time, place and manner of holding primary elections, as well as of determining and contesting the results
thereof, are comprehensively and minutely prescribed by
statutory provisions. Among these provisions are the
ones which provide for the appointment of judges of election and prescribe their functions, powers and duties.
A vote at a primary is a vote within the intendment of
the Fifteenth Amendment. Section 31, Title 8, U. S. C.,
evidences a contemporaneous interpretation of the Fifteenth Amendment applying the right to vote to "any
election." The word "vote" is used throughout the
Texas election laws in its usual sense, with no distinction
between primary and general elections.
The whole tenor of the primary laws of Texas is to protect the expression of the will of the people in nominating
candidates. Love v. Wilcox, supra. The primary involves the initial, and, in Texas, the determinative choice
of the officers of the government.
If it were true that the right to vote guaranteed by the
Fifteenth Amendment did not extend to primary elections, then the same would be true of the Nineteenth
Amendment, which in identical words guarantees the right
to vote without regard to sex. The Fifteenth Amendment has frequently been held to be self-executing. Neal
v. Delaware, 103 U. S. 370, 389; Ex parte Yarbrough, 110
U. S. 651, 665. And even were it not self-executing, § 31,
Title 8, of the United States Code expresses in statutory
form what the Amendme-nt contemplated.
Distinguishing: Newberry v. United States, 256 U. S.
232; Koy v. Schneider, 110 Tex. 369. Cf. Ashford v.

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Argument for Petitioner.

286 U.S.

Goodwin, 103 Tex. 491, and Anderson v. Ash, 62 Tex. Civ.
App. 262.
Even if the refusal to permit the petitioner to vote at
the primary election was not a denial of his right to vote,
because he could still express his will at the general election, nevertheless his right to vote would have been
abridged.
In States such as Texas, where the primary election
is in a real sense the only true election, the vote at
the final election is merely a formal flourish. The courts
of Texas have taken judicial notice of the fact .that for
all practical purposes, and certainly in so far as state
elections -re concerned, there is only one political party,
and that the real political battles of the State are not
those held at the final election, but those waged for nomination at the Democratic primaries. Moore v. Meharg,
287 S. W. 670; 23 Mich. L. Rev. 279. Cf. Newberry v.
United States, 256 U. S. 232, 266-7; Merriam, Primary
Elections, 1908 ed., pp. 83-85; Koy v. Schneider, 110
Tex. 369.
Under the statutes as they existed prior to the adoption
of c. 67 of the Laws of 1927, there was no inherent power
in the party to exclude the petitioner from the primaries.
The power to do so was solely derived from c. 67 of the
Laws of 1927.
Even prior to the Act of 1923 the State had defined
party powers and who might vote in party primaries. In
consequence, the limitation contained in c. 67 of the Laws
of 1927 was not a limitation upon inherent powers already existing in parties, but was a limitation necessitated
by the grant to the Executive Committee of the power
to determine party membership.
The election laws define and limit in meticulous detail
the principal functions of political parties. This exercise
of sovereignty has deprived the parties of their inde-

NIXON v. CONDON.
73

Argument for Respondents.

pendence of action. Parties have, in their relation to
primary and other elections, only such powers, duties
and privileges, as the statutes give them.
Mr. Ben R. Howell, with whom Mr. Thornton Hardie
was on the brief, for respondents:
The Fourteenth and Fifteenth Amendments are a limitation only upon the power of a State, and do not affect
private individuals or private associations of individuals.
Citing the Slaughterhouse Cases, 16 Wall. 36, and a multitude of others.
The action of the Executive Committee in excluding
petitioner from voting at a primary was not an action
of the State.
A political party has the inherent right to determine
the qualifications of its own members.
No one can question the right of men to organize a
party of men and exclude women from its ranks; no one
can question the right of women to organize a party of
women and exclude men from its ranks; no one can question the right of a group of indiyiduals to organize a political party with its membership based on stature, color
of the hair or color of the skin. It seems to be conceded in
petitioner's brief that the Democratic party, prior to
1923 when Art. 3093-A (the statute involved in Nixon v.
Herndon, 273 U. S. 536) was passed by the Texas Legislature, had the right to exclude the negro from membership in that party.
The Texas Supreme Court has drawn a clear distinction between the State and a political party, and has defined a political party. Waples v. Marrast, 108 Tex. 5;
184 S. W. 180; Koy v. Schneider, 110 Tex. 369; 218 S. W.
480; 221 S. W. 880; Cunningham v. McDermott, 277 S.
W. 218; Winnett v. Adams, 71 Neb. 917; 99 N. W. 681;
State v. Kanawha County, 78 W. Va. 168; 88 S. E. 662;

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Argument for Respondents

286 U.S.

Stephenson v. Board of Electors, 118 Mich. 396; 76 N. W.
914; Phillips v. Gallagher,73 Minn. 528; 76 N. W. 285;
Kearns v. Hawley, 188 Pa. 116; 41 Atl. 273; Grigsby v.
Harris, 27 F. (2d) 942.
The statute enacted in 1923, declared unconstitutional
in Nixon v. Herndon, supra, was void and did not operate
to diminish the power already possessed by the party to
determine the qualifications of its own members.
By enacting c. 67 of the Laws of 1927 the legislature
merely withdrew the State from an attempted unlawful
interference with the right of the party to determine the
qualifications of its members. The legislature thus recognized a power which had long existed in the party to determine its membership and did not delegate such power
to the party.
Every court which has passed upon the statute in question has construed it to be a withdrawal by the State and
a recognition of the party's rights by the State. Nixon
v. Condon, 34 F. (2d) 464; s.c., 49 F. (2d) 1012; Love v.
Wilcox, 119 Tex. 256; 28 S. W. (2d) 515; White v. Lubbock, 30 S. W. (2d) 72; Grigsby v. Harris,27 F. (2d) 972.
The Fifteenth Amendment, like the Fourteenth, is limited to action by a State. Respondents, as judges in the
primary, were not officers of the State, and their action in
denying petitioner a vote was not state action.
The record shows that the judges are selected and paid
by the party. It is true that their duties are regulated
in many details by the statutes. But regulation to insure fair primaries does not mean that the party officers
become state officers.
The primary involved was not an election of the people
within the meaning of § 31, Title 8, U. S. C. A party
nomination is not "an election of the people," but is'
merely the choosing of a candidate by that party, and consequently petitioner fails to show jurisdiction under this

NIXON v. CONDON.
73

Opinion of the Court.

section or to state any cause of action against respondents
under the statute.
Messrs. J. Alston Atkins, Carter W. Wesley, and J.. M.
Nabrit, Jr., by leave of Court, filed a brief as amici curiae.
MR. JUSTICE CARDOZO

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The petitioner, a Negro, has brought this action against
judges of election in Texas to recover damages for their
refusal by reason of his race or color to permit him to cast
his vote at a primary election.
This is not the first time that he has found it necessary
to invoke the jurisdiction of the federal courts in vindication of privileges secured to him by the Federal
Constitution.
In Nixon v. Herndon, 273 U. S. 536, decided at the
October Term, 1926, this court had before it a statute of
the State of Texas (Article 3093a, Revised Civil Statutes,
afterwards numbered 3107) whereby the legislature had
said that "in no event shall a negro be eligible to participate in a democratic' party primary election [held in that
State],' and that "should a negro vote in a democratic
primary election, the ballot shall be void," and election
officials were directed to throw it out. While the mandate was in force, the Negro was shut out from a share
in primary elections, not in obedience to the, will of the
party speaking through the party organs, but by the
command of the State itself, speaking by the voice of its
chosen representatives. At the suit of this petitioner,
the statute was adjudged void as an infringement of his
rights and liberties under the Constitution of the United
States.
Promptly after the announcement of that decision, the
legislature of Texas enacted a new statute (L. 1927, c. 67)

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

286 U.S.

repealing the article condemned by this court; declaring
that the effect of the decision was to create an emergency
with a need for immediate action; and substituting for
the article so repealed another bearing the same number.
By the article thus substituted, "every political party in
this State through its State Executive Committee shall
have the power to prescribe the qualifications of its own
members and shall in its own way determine who shall
be qualified to vote or otherwise participate in such political party; provided that no person shall ever be denied
the right to participate in a primary in this State because
of former political views or affiliations or because of
membership or non-membership in organizations other
than the political party."
Acting under the new statute, the State Executive Committee of the Democratic party adopted a resolution " that
all white democrats who are qualified under the constitution and laws of Texas and who subscribe to the statutory
pledge provided in Article 3110, Revised Civil Statutes
of Texas, and none other, be allowed to participate in the
primary elections to be held July 28, 1928, and August
25, 1928," and the chairman and secretary were directed
to forward copies of the resolution to the committees in
the several counties.
On July 28, 1928, the petitioner, a citizen of the United
States, and qualified to vote unless disqualified by the
foregoing resolution, presented himself at the polls and
requested that he be furnished with a ballot. The respondents, the judges of election, declined to furnish the
ballot or to permit the vote on the ground that the petitioner was a Negro and that by force of the resolution of
the Executive Committee only white Democrats were
allowed to be voters at the Democratic primary. The
refusal was followed by this action for damages. In the
District Court there was a judgment of dismissal, 34 F.

NIXON v. CONDON.
73

Opinion of the Court.

(2d) 464, which was affirmed by the Circuit Court of
Appeals for the Fifth Circuit, 49 F. (2d) 1012. A writ of
certiorari brings the cause here.
Barred from voting at a primary the petitioner has
been, and this for the sole reason that his color is not
white. The result for him is no different from what it was
when his cause was here before. The argument for the
respondents is, however, that identity of result has been
attained through essential diversity of method. We are
reminded that the Fourteenth Amendment is a restraint
upon the States and not upon private persons unconnected
with a State. United States v. Cruikshank, 92 U. S. 542;
Strauder v. West Virginia, 100 U. S. 303; Ex parte Virginia, 100 U. S. 339, 346; James v. Bowman, 190 U. S.
127, 136. This line of demarcation drawn, we are told
that a political party is merely a voluntary association;
that it has inherent power like voluntary associations
generally to determine its own membership; that the new
article of the statute, adopted in place of the mandatory
article of exclusion condemned by this court, has no other
effect than to restore to the members of the party the
power that would have been theirs if the lawmakers had
been silent; and that qualifications thus established are
as far aloof from the impact of constitutional restraint as
those for membership in a golf club or for admission to a
Masonic lodge.
Whether a political party in Texas has inherent power
today without restraint by any law to determine its own
membership, we are not required at this time either to
affirm or to deny. The argument for the petitioner is
that quite apart from the article in controversy, there
are other provisions of the Election Law whereby the
privilege of unfettered choice has been withdrawn or
abridged (citing, e. g., Articles 2955, 2975, 3100, 3104,
3105, 3110, 3121, Revised Civil Laws); that nomination

84

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

286 U.S.

at a primary is in many circumstances required by the
statute if nomination is to be made at all (Article 3101);
that parties and their representatives have become the
custodians of official power (Article 3105); and that if
heed is to be given to the realities of political life, they
are now agencies of the State, the instruments by which
government becomes a living thing. In that view, so
runs the argument, a party is still free to define for itself
the political tenets of its members, but to those who profess its tenets there may be no denial of its privileges.
A narrower base will serve for our judgment in the
cause at hand. Whether the effect of Texas legislation
has been to work so complete a transformation of the
concept of a political party as a voluntary association, we
do not now decide. Nothing in this opinion is to be taken
as carrying with it an intimation that the court is ready
or unready to follow the petitioner so far. As to that,
decision must be postponed until decision becomes necessary. Whatever our conclusion might be if the statute
had remitted to the party the untrammeled power to
prescribe the qualifications of its members, nothing of
the kind was done. Instead, the statute lodged the power
in a committee, which excluded the petitioner and others
of his race, not by virtue of any authority delegated by
the party, but by virtue of an authority originating or
supposed to originate in the mandate of the law.
We recall at this point the wording of the statute invoked by the respondents. "Every political party in this
State through its State Executive Committee shall have
the power to prescribe the qualifications of its own members and shall in its own way determine who shall be
qualified to vote or otherwise participate in such political
party." Whatever inherent power a State political party
has to determine the content of its membership resides in
the State convention. Bryce, Modern Democracies, vol.

NIXON v. CONDON.
73

Opinion of the Court.

2, p. 40. There platforms of principles are announced
and the tests of party allegiance made known to the world.
What is true in that regard of parties generally, is true
more particularly in Texas, where the statute is explicit
in committing to the State convention the formulation of
the partyfaith (Article 3139). The State Executive
Committee, if it is the sovereign organ of the party, is
not such by virtue of any powers inherent in its being.
It is, as its name imports, a committee and nothing more,
a committee to be chosen by the convention and to consist of a chairman and thirty-one members, one from each
senatorial district of the State (Article 3139). To this
committee the statute here in controversy has attempted
to confide authority to determine of its own motion the
requisites of party membership and in so doing to speak
for the party as a whole. Never has the State convention
made declaration of a will to bar Negroes of the State
from admission to the party ranks. Counsel for the
respondents so conceded upon the hearing in this court.
Whatever power of exclusion has been exercised by the
members of the committee has come to them, therefore,
not as the delegates of the party, but as the delegates of
the State. Indeed, adherence to the statute leads to the
conclusion that a resolution once adopted by the committee must continue to be binding upon the judges of election though the party in convention may have sought to
override it, unless the committee, yielding to the moral
force of numbers, shall revoke its earlier action and obey
the party will. Power so intrenched is statutory, not
inherent. If the State had not conferred it, there would
be hardly color of right to give a basis for its exercise.
Our conclusion 'n that regard is not affected by what
was ruled by the upeine Court of Texas in Love v.
Wilcox, 119 Tex. 256; 28 S. W. (2d) 515, or by the Court
of Civil Appeals in White v. Lubbock, 30 S. W. (2d) 722.

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

286 U.S.

The ruling in the first case was directed to the validity
of the-provision whereby neither the party nor the committee is to be permitted to make former political affiliations the test of party regularity. There were general
observations in the opinion as to the functions of parties
and committees. They do not constitute the decision.
The decision was merely this, that "the committee
whether viewed as an agency of the State or as a mere
agency of the party is not authorized to take any action
which is forbidden by an express and valid statute." The
ruling in the second case, which does not come from the
highest court of the State, upholds the constitutionality of
§ 3107 as amended in 1927, and speaks of the exercise
of the inherent powers of the party by the act of its
proper officers. There is nothing to show, however, that
the mind of the court was directed to the point that the
members of a committee would not have been the proper
officers to exercise the inherent powers of" the party if
the statute had not attempted to clothe them with that
quality. The management of the affairs of a group already
associated together as members of a party is obviously
a very different function from that of determining who
the members of the group shall be. If another view were
to be accepted, a committee might rule out of the party
a faction distasteful to itself, and exclude the very men
who had helped to bring it into existence. In any event,
the Supreme Court of Texas has not yet spoken on the
subject with clearness or finality, and nothing in its pronouncements brings us to the belief that in the absence
of a statute or other express grant it would recognize a
mere committee as invested with all the powers of the
party assembled in convention. Indeed, its latest decision
dealing with any aspect of the statute here in controversy,
a decision handed down on April 21, 1932 (Love v. Buckner, 49 S. W. (2d) 425), describes the statute as constituting "a grant of power" to the State Executive Coin-

NIXON v. CONDON.
73

Opinion of the Court.

mittee to determine who shall participate in the primary
elections.* What was questioned in that case was the
validity of a pledge exacted from the voters that it was
their bona fide purpose to support the party nominees.
The court in upholding the exaction found a basis for
its ruling in another article of the Civil Statutes (Art.
3167), in an article of the Penal Code (Art. 340), and in
the inherent power of the committee to adopt regulations
reasonably designed to give effect to the obligation assumed by an elector in the very act of voting. To clinch
the argument the court then added that if all these sources
of authority were inadequate, the legislature had made
in Article 3107 an express " grant of power" to determine
qualifications generally. There is no suggestion in the
opinion that the inherent power of the committee was
broad enough (apart from legislation) to. permit it to
prescribe the extent of party membership, to say to a
group of voters, ready as was the petitioner to take the
statutory pledge, that one class should be eligible and
another not. On the contrary, the whole opinion is instinct with the concession that pretensions so extraordinary must find their warrant in a statute. The most that
can be said for the respondents is that the inherent lpowers
of the Committee are still unsettled in the local courts.
Nothing in the state of the decisions requires us to hold
that they have been settled in a manner that would be
subversive of the fundamental postulates of party organization. The suggestion is offered that in default of inWe are bound to give effect to a grant of power to the State
Executive Committee of a party to determine who shall participate
in the acts of the party otherwise than by voting in a primary, when
the Legislature grants the power in language too plain to admit of
controversy, and when the determination of the Committee conflicts
with no other statutory requirement or prohibition, especially when
the Committee's determination makes effectual the public policy of
the State as revealed in its statutes." Love v. Buckner, supra.
* "

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

286 U.S.

herent power or of statutory grant the committee may
have been armed with the requisite authority by vote of
the convention. Neither at our bar nor on the trial was
the case presented on that theory. At every stage of the
case the assumption has been made that authority, if
there was any, was either the product of the statute or
was inherent in the committee under the law of its
creation.
We discover no significance, and surely no significance
favorable to the respondents, in earlier acts of legislation
whereby the power to prescribe additional qualifications
was conferred on local committees in the several counties
of the State. L. 1903, c. 101, § 94. The very fact that
such legislation was thought necessary is a token that
the committees were without inherent power. We do
not impugn the competence of the legislature to designate the agencies whereby the party faith shall be declared and the party discipline enforced. The pith of
the matter is simply this, that wh-en those agencies are
invested with an authority independent of the will of the
association in whose name they undertake to speak, they
become to that extent the organs of the State itself, the
repositories of official power. They are then the governmental instruments whereby parties are organized and
regulated to the end that government itself may be established or continued. What they do in that relation, they
must do in submission to the mandates of equality and
liberty that, bind officials everywhere. They are not acting in matters of merely private concern like the directors
or agents of business corporations. They are acting in
matters of high public interest, matters intimately -connected with the capacity of government to exercise its
functions unbrokenly and smoothly. Whether in given
circumstances parties or their committees are agencies
of government Within the Fourteenth or the Fifteenth
Amendment is a question which this court will determine

NIXON v. CONDON.
73

McREYNOLDS,

J., dissenting.

for itself. It is not concluded upon such an inquiry by
decisions rendered elsewhere. The test is not whether
the members of the Executive Committee are the representatives of the State in the strict sense in which an
agent is the representative of his principal. The tbst'is
whether they are to be classified as representatives of the
State to such an extent and in such a sense that the great
restraints of the Constitution set limits to their action.
With the problem thus laid bare and its essentials exposed to view, the case is seen to be ruled by Nixon v.
Herndon, supra. Delegates of the State's power have discharged their official functions in such a way as to discriminate invidiously between white citizens and black.
Ex parte Virginia, supra; Buchanan v. Warley, 245 U. S.
60, 77. The Fourteenth Amendment, adopted as it was
with special solicitude for the equal protection of members
of the Negro race, lays a duty upon the court to level by
its judgment these barriers of color.
The judgment below is reversed and the cause remanded for further proceedings in conformity with this
opinion.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE McREYNOLDS, dissenting.

March 15, 1929, petitioner here brought suit for damages in the United States District Court, Western Division
of Texas, against Condon and Kolle, theretofore judges in
a Democratic primary election. He claims they wrongfully deprived him of rights guaranteed by the Fourteenth
and Fifteenth Amendments, Federal Constitution, by
denying him the privilege of voting therein. Upon motion the trial court dismissed the petition, holding that it
failed to state a cause of action; the Circuit Court of
Appeals sustained this ruling. The matter is here by
certiorari.
The original petition, or declaration, allegesL. A. Nixon, a negro citizen of the United States and
of Texas duly registered and qualified to vote in Precinct

90

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
McREYNOLDS, J., dissenting.

286 U.S.

No. 9, El Paso County at the general election and a member of the Democratic party, was entitled to participate
in the primary election held by that party July 28, 1928,
for nominating candidates for State and other offices. He
duly presented himself and sought to cast his ballot. Defendants, the judges, refused his request by reason of the
following resolution theretofore adopted by the State
Democratic Executive Committee"Resolved: That all white Democrats who are qualified
and [sic] under the Constitution and laws of Texas and
who subscribe to the statutory pledge provided in Article
3110, Revised Civil Statutes of Texas, and none other, be
allowed to participate in the primary elections to be held
July 28, 1928, and August 25, 1928, and further, that the
Chairman and secretary of the State Democratic Executive Committee be directed to forward to each Democratic
County Chairman in Texas a copy of this resolution for
observance."
That, the quoted resolution "was adopted by the State
Democratic Executive Committee of Texas under authority of the Act of the Legislature "-Ch. 67, approved
June 7, 1927. Chapter 67 undertook to repeal former
Article 3107,' Ch. 13, Rev. Civil Stat. 1925, which had
been adopted in 1923, Ch. 32, § 1 (Article 3093a) and in
lieu thereof to enact the following:
"Article 3107 (Ch. 67 Acts 1927). Every political
party in this State through its State Executive Committee
shall have the power to prescribe the qualifications of its
own members and shall in its own way determine who
shall be qualified to vote or otherwise participate in such
political party; provided that no person shall ever be
denied the right to participate in a primary in this State
1

Original Art. 3107-Rev. Civ. Stats. 1925: "In no event shall a
negro be eligible to participate in a Democratic party primary
election held in the State of Texas, and should a negro vote in a

Democratic -primary election, such ballot shall be void and-election
officials shall not count the same."

NIXON v. CONDON.
73

MCREYNOLDS,

J., dissenting.

because of former political views or affiliations or because
of membership or non-membership in organizations other
than the political party."
That, in 1923, prior to enactment of Chapter 67, the
Legislature adopted Article 3093a,2 Revised Civil Statutes,
declaring that no negro should be eligible to participate
in a Democratic party primary election. This was held
invalid state action by Nixon v. Herndon, 273 U. S. 536.
That, when chapter 67 was adopted only the Democratic
party held primary elections in Texas and the legislative
purpose was thereby to prevent Nixon and other negroes
from participating in such primaries.
That chapter 67 and the above quoted resolution of
the Executive Committee are inoperative, null and void
in so far as they exclude negroes from primaries. They
conflict with the Fourteenth and Fifteenth Amendments
to the Federal Constitution and laws of the United States.
That there are many thousand negro Democratic voters
in Texas. The State is normally overwhelmingly Democratic and nomination by the primaries of that party is
equivalent to an election. Practically there is no contest
for State offices except amongst candidates for such nominations.
That the defendants' action in denying petitioner the
right to vote was unlawful, deprived him of valuable political rights, and damaged him five thousand dollars.
And for this sum he asks judgment.
[Acts 2d C. S. 1923, p. 74] Article 3093a from Acts 1923. "All
qualified voters under the laws and constitution of the State of Texas
who are bona fide members of the Democratic party, shall be eligible
to participate in any Democratic party primary election, provided
such voter complies with all laws and rules governing party primary
elections; however, in no event shall a negro be eligible to participate
in a Democratic party primary election held in the State of Texas,
and should a negro vote in a Democratic primary election, such ballot
shall be void and election officials are herein directed to throw out
such ballot and not count the same."

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
McREYNOLDS,

J., dissenting.

286 U.S.

The trial court declared [p. 468]"The court here holds that the State Democratic Executive Committee of the State of Texas, at time of the
passage of the resolution here complained of, was not a
body corporate to which the Legislature of the State of
Texas could delegate authority to legislate, and that 'the
members of said Committee were not officials of the State
of Texas, holding position as officers of the State of Texas,
under oath, or drawing compensation from the State, and
not acting as a state governmental agency, within the
meaning of the law, but only as private individuals holding such position as members of said State Executive
Committee by virtue of action taken upon the part of
members of their respective political party; and this is
also true as to defendants, they acting only as representatives of such political party, viz: the Democratic party,
in connection with the holding of a Democratic primary
election for the nomination of candidates on the ticket
of the Democratic party to be voted on at the general
election, and in refusing to permit plaintiff to vote at such
Democratic primary election defendants were not acting
for the State of Texas, or as a governmental agency of
said State."
Also [p. 469] "that the members of a voluntary association, such as a political organization, members of the
Democratic party in Texas, possess inherent power to
prescribe qualifications regulating membership of such
organization, or political party. That this is, and was,
true without reference to the passage by the Legislature
of the State of Texas of said Art. 3107, and is not affected
by the passage of said act, and such inherent power remains and exists just as if said act had never been passed."
The Circuit Court of Appeals said [p. 1013]"The distinction between appellant's cases, the one under the 1923 statute and the other under the 1927 statute,
is that he was denied permission to vote in the former by

NIXON v. CONDON.
73

McREYNOLDS, J., dissenting.

state statute, and in the latter by resolution of the State

Democratic Executive Committee. It is argued on behalf
of appellant that this is a distinction without a difference,
and that the State through its legislature attempted by
the 1927 act to do indirectly what the Supreme Court
had held it was powerless to accomplish directly by the
1923 act.
"We are of opinion, however, that there is a vast
difference between the two sfatutes. The Fourteenth
° expressly directed against prohibitions
Amendment is
and restraints imposed by the States, and the Fifteenth
protects the right to vote against denial or abridgment
by any State or by the United States; neither operates
against private individuals or voluntary associations.
United States v. Cruikshank, 92 U. S.542;, Virginia v.
Rives, 100 U. S. 313; James v. Bowman, 190 U. S.127.
"A political party is a voluntary association, and as
such has the inherent power to prescribe the qualifications of its-members. The act of 1927 was not needed to
confer such power; it merely recognized a power that
already existed. Waples v. Marrast, 108 Tex. 5; 184
S. W. 180; White v. Lubbock, (Tex. Civ. App.) 30 S.W.
(2d) 722; Grigsby v. Harris, 27 F. (2d) 942. It did not
attempt as did the 1923 act to exclude any voter from
membership in any political party. Precinct judges of
election are appointed by party executive committees
and are paid for their services out of funds that are raised
by assessments upon candidates. Revised Civil Statutes
of Texas, §§ 3104, 3108."
I think the judgment below is right and should be
affirmed.
The argument for reversal is this-The statute--Chapter 67, present Article 3107--declares that every political party through its State Executive Committee "shall have the power to prescribe the
qualifications, of its own members and shall in its own

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
McREYNOLDS,

J., dissenting.

286 U.S.

way determine who shall be qualified to vote or otherwise
participate in such political party." The result, it is
said, is to constitute the Executive Committee an instrumentality of the State with power to take action, legislative in, nature, concerning membership in the party.
Accordingly, the attempt of the Democratic Committee
to restrict voting in primaries to white people amounted
to State action to that effect within the intendment of the
Federal Constitution and was void under Nixon v.
Herndon, supra.
This reasoning rests upon an erroneous view of the
meaning and effect of the statute.
In Nixon v. Herndon the Legislature in terms forbade
all negroes from participating in Democratic primaries.
The exclusion was the direct result of the statute and
this was declared invalid because iriconflict with the
Fourteenth Amendment.
.The act now challenged withholds nothing from any
negro; it makes no discrimination. It recognizes power
in every political party, acting through its Executive
Committee, to prescribe qualifications for membership,
provided only that none shall be excluded on account of
former political views or affiliations, or membership or
non-membership in any non-political organization. The
difference between the two pronouncements is not difficult to discover.
Nixon's present complaint rests upon the asserted invalidity of the resolution of the Executive ,Committee
and, in order to prevail, he must demonstrate, that it
amounted to direct action by the State.
The plaintiff's petition does not attempt to show what
powers the Democratic party had entrusted to its State
Executive Committee. It says nothing of the duties of
the Committee as a party organ; no allegation denies that
under approved rules and resolutions, it may determine

NIXON v. CONDON.
73

McREYNOLDS,

J., dissenting.

and annbunce qualifications for party membership. We
cannot lightly suppose that it undertook to act without
authority from- the party. Ordinarily, between conventions party executive committees have general authority
to speak and act in respect of party matters. There is no
allegation that the questioned resolution failed to express
the party will. For present purposes the Committee's
resolution must be accepted as the voice of the party.
Petitioner insists that the Committee's resolution was
authorized by the State; the statute only recognizes party
action and he may not now deny that the party had
,spoken. The exclusion resulted from party action and on
that footing the cause must be dealt with. Petitioner has
planted himself there. Whether the cause would be more
substantial if differently stated, we need not inquire.
As early as 1895--Ch. 35, Acts 1895--the Texas Legislature undertook through penal statutes to prevent illegal
voting in political primaries, also false returns, bribery,
etc. And later, many, if not all, of the general safeguards
designed to secure orderly conduct of regular elections
were extended to party primaries.
By Acts of 1903 and 1905, and subsequent amendments,
the Legislature directed that only official ballots should
be u~ed in all general elections. These are prepared,
printed and distributed by public officials at publio
expense.
With adoption of the official ballot it became necessary
to prescribe the methods for designating the candidates
whose names might appear on such ballot. Three, or
more, have been authorized. A party whose last candidate for governor received 100,000 votes must select its
candidate through a primary election. Where a party
candidate has received less than 100,000, and more than
10,000, votes it may designate candidates through convention or primary, as its Executive Committee may deter-

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
McREYNOLDS,

J., dissenting.

286 U.S.

mine. A written petition by a specified number of voters
may be used in behalf of an independent or nonpartisan
candidate.
Some of the States have undertaken to convert the
direct primary into a legally regulated election. In
others, Texas included, the primary is conducted largely
under party rules. Expenses are borne by the party; they
are met chiefly from funds obtained by assessments upon
candidates. A number of States (eleven perhaps) leave
the determination of one's right to participate in a primary to the party, with or without certain minimum requirements stated by statute. In "Texas the party is
free to impose and enforce the qualifications it sees fit,"
subject to some definite restrictions. See Primary Elections, Merriam and Overacker, pp. 66, 72, 73.
A "primary election" within the meaning of the chapter of the Texas Rev. Civil Stat. relating to nominations
"means an election held by the members of an organized political party for the purpose of nominating the
candidates of such party to be voted for at a general or
special election, or to nominate the county executive officers of a party." Article 3100; General Laws 1905, (1st
C. S.) Ch. .11, § 102. The statutes of the State do not
and never have undertaken.to define membership-who
shall be regarded as a member-in a political party.
They have said that membership shall not be denied to
certain specified persons; otherwise, the matter has been
left with the party organization.
Since 1903 (Acts 1903, Ch. CI., § 94,' p. 150, 28th Leg.;
Acts 1905, Ch. 11, § 103, p. 543, 29th Leg.) the statutes
of Texas have recognized the power of party executive
committees to define the qualifications for membership.
The Act of 1923, Ch. 32, § 1, (Art. 3093a) and the Act
'Acts 1903, Ch. CI.

"Sec.

94 ....

provided, that the county

executive committee of the party holding any primary election may
prescribe additional qualifications necessary to participate therein."

NIXON v. CONDON.
73

McREYNOLDS,

J., dissenting.

of 1927, Ch. 67, §1, (Art. 3107) recognize the authority
of the party through the Executive Committee, or otherwise, to specify such qualifications throughout the State.
See Love v. Wilcox, 119 Tex. 256; 28S. W.' (2d) 515, 523.
These Acts, and amendments, also recognize the right
of State and County Executive Committees generally to
speak and act for the party concerning primaries. These.
committees appoint the necessary officials, provide supplies, canvass the votes, collect assessments, certify the
successful candidates, pay expenses and do whatever is required for the orderly conduct of the primaries. Their
members are not State officials; they are chosen by those
who compose the party; they receive nothing from the
State.
By the amendment of 1923 the Legislature undertook
to declare that "all qualified voters under the laws and
constitution of the State of Texas who are bona fide members of the Democratic party, shall be eligible to participate in any Democratic party primary election, provided
such voter complies with all laws and rules governing
party primary elections; however, in no event shall a
negro be eligible to participate in a Democratic party
primary election held in the State of Texas." Love v.
Wilcox, supra, 274; 523. This enactment, held inoperative by Nixon v. Herndon, supra, (1927) was promptly
repealed.
The courts of Texas have spoken concerning the nature
of political primary elections and their relationship to
the State. And as our present concern is with parties
and legislation of that State, we turn to them for enlightenment rather than to general observations by popular
writers on public affairs.
In Waples v. Marrast, 108 Texas 5, 11, 1.2; 184 S. W.
180, decided in 1916, the Supreme Court declared"A political party is nothing more or less than a body
of men associated for the purpose of furnishing and main-

98

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
McREYNOLDS,

J., dissenting.

286 U. S.

taining the prevalence of certain political principles or beliefs in the public policies of the government. As rivals
for popular favor they strive at the general elections for
the control of the agencies of the government as the means
of providing a course for the government in accord with
their political principles and the administration of those
agencies by their own adherents. According to the soundness of their principles and the wisdom of their policies
they serve a great purpose in the life of a government.
But the fact remains that the objects of political organizations are intimate to those who compose them. They
do not concern the general public. They directly interest,
both in their conduct and in their success, only so much
of the public as are [sic] comprised in their membership,
and then only as members of the particular organization.
They perform no governmental function. They constitute no governmental agency. The purpose of their primary elections is merely to enable them to furnish their
nominees as candidates for the popular suffrage. In the
interest of fair methods and a fair expression by their
members of their preference in the selection of their nominees, the State* may regulate such elections by proper
laws, as it has done in our general primary law, and as
it- was competent for the Legislature to do by a proper
act of the character of the one here under review. But
the payment of the expenses of purely party elections is
a different matter. On principle, such expenses can not
be differentiated from any other character of expense incurred in carrying out a party object, since the attainment
of a party purpose--the election of its nominees at the
general elections through the unified vote of the party
membership-is necessarily the prime object of a party
primary.
"To provide nominees of political parties for the
people to vote upon in the general elections, is not the

NIXON v. CONDON.
73

McREYNOLDS,

J., dissenting.

business of the State. It is not the business of the State
because in the conduct of the government the State knows
no parties and can know none. If it is not the business
of the State to see that such nominations are made, as it
clearly is not, the public revenues can not be employed
in that connection. To furnish their nominees as claimants- for the popular favor in the general elections -is a
matter which concerns alone those parties that desire to
make such nominations. It is alone their concern because they alone are interested in the success of their
nominees. The State, as a government, can not afford to
concern itself in the success of the nominees of any political party, or in the elective offices of the people being
filled only by those who are the nominees of some politi-cal party. Political parties are political instrumentalities.
They are in no sense governmental instrumentalities.
The responsible duties of the State to all the people
are to be performed and its high objects effected without
reference to parties, and they have no part or place in
the exercise by the State of its great province in governing
the people."
Koy v. Schneider, 110 Texas, 369, 376, 218 S. W. 47.9;
221 S. W. 880 (April 21, 1920)-" The Act of the Legislature deals only with suffrage within the party primary
or convention, which is but an instrumentality of a
group of individuals for the accomplishment of party
ends." And see id. pp. 394 et seq.
Cunningham v. McDermett, 277 S. W. 218, (Court of
Civil Appeals, Oct. 22, 1925)-"Appellant .contends that
the Legislature by prescribing how party primaries must
be conducted, turned the party into a -governmental
agency, and that a candidate of a primary, being the
candidate of the governmental agency, should be protected•
from the machinations of evilly disposed persons.
"With .this proposition we cannot agree, but consider
them as they were held to be by our Supreme Court in

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
McRzYNOLDS, J., dissenting.

286 U.S.

the case of Waples v. Marrast, 108 Tex. 5, 184 S. W. 180,
L. R. A. 1917A, 253, in which Chief Justice Phillips said:
'Political parties are political instrumentalities. They are
in no sense governmental instrumentalities.'
Briscoe v. Boyle, 286 S. W. 275, 276 (Court Civil Appeals, July 2, 1926)-This case was decided by an inferior
court while the Act of 1923, Ch. 32, § 1, amending Art.
3093, was thought to be in force-before Nixon v. Hemdon, supra, ruled otherwise. It must be read with that
fact in mind. Among other things, the court said-" In
fine, the Legislature has in minute detail laid out the
process by which political parties shall operate the statute-made machinery for making party nominations, and
has so hedged this machinery with statutory regulations
and restrictions as to deprive the parties and their managers of all discretion in the manipulation of that
machinery."
Love v. Wilcox, supra, 272, (Sup. Ct., May 17, 1930)"We are not called upon to determine whether a
political party has power, beyond statutory control, to
prescribe what persons shall participate as voters or candidates in its conventions or primaries. We have no such
state of facts before us. The respondents claim that the
State Committee has this power by virtue of its general
authority to manage the affairs of the party. The statute,
article 3107, Complete Tex>St. 1928 (Vernon's Ann. Civ.
St. art. 3107), recognizes this general authority of the
State Committee, but places a limitation on the discretionary power which may be conferred on that committee
by the party by declaring that, though the party through
its State Executive Committee, shall have the power to
prescribe the qualifications of its own members, and to
determine who shall be qualified to vote and otherwise
participate, yet the committee shall not exclude anyone
from participation in the party primaries because of former political views or affiliations, or because of member-

NIXON v. CONDON.
73

MCREYNOLDS, J., dissenting..

ship or non-membership in organizations other than the
political party. The committee's. discretionary power is
further restricted by the statute directing that a single,
uniform pledge be required of the primary participants.
The effect of the statutes is to decline to give recognition
to the lodgment of power in a State Executive Committee,
to be exercised at its discretion. The statutes have recognized the right of the party to create an Executive Committee as an agency of the party, and have recognized the
right of the party to confer upon that committee certain
discretionary powers, but have declined to recognize the
right to confer upon the committee the discretionary
power to exclude from participation in the party's affairs
any one because of former political views or affiliations,
or because of refusal to take any other than the statutory
pledge. It is obvious, we think, that the party itself never
intended to confer upon its Executive Committee any such.
discretionary power. The party when it selected its State
Committee did so with full knowledge of the statutory
limitations on that committee's authority, and must be
held to have selected the committee with the intent that
it would act within the powers conferred, and within-the
limitations declared by the statute. Hence, the committee, whether viewed as an agency of the state ot as a nere
agency of the party, is not authorized to take aiy action
which is forbidden by an express and valid statute."
Love v. Buclcner, 49 S. W. (2d) 425, (Sup. Ct., Texas,
April 21, 1932).
The Court of Civil Appeals certified to the Supreme
Court for determination the question-" Whether the
Democratic State ExecutiVe Committee had lawful authority to require otherwise lawfully qualified and eligible
Democratic voters to take the pledge specified in the
resolution adopted by the Committee at its meeting in
March," 1932.

102

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
McREYNOLDS,

J., dissenting.

286 U.S.

The resolution directed that no person should be permitted to participate in any precinct or county Democratic convention held for the purpose of selecting delegates to the State convention at which delegates to the
National Democratic Convention are selected unless such
person shall take a written pledge to support the
nominees for President and Vice-President.
"The Court answers that the Executive Committee
was authorized to require the voters to take the specified
pledge."
It said"The Committee's power to require a pledge is contested on the ground that. the Committee possesses no
authority over the conventions of its party not granted
by statute, .and that the statutes of Texas do not grant,
but negative, the Committee's power to. exact such a
pledge. .,
"pWe
dgno
think it consistent with the history and
usages of parties in this State nor with the course of our
legislation to regard the respective parties or the state
executive committees as denied all power over the party
membership, conventions, and primaries save where such
power may be found to have been expressly delegated by
statute. On the contrary, the statutes recognize party
organizations including the state committees, as the repositori6s of party power, which the Legislature has
sought"h 'c6ntrol or regulate only .so far as was deemed
fiecessary. for important governmental ends, such as
purity of the ballot and integrity in the ascertainment
and fulfillment of the party will as declared by its
membership.
"Without either statutory sanction or prohibition; the
party must have the right to adopt reasonable regulations for the enforcement of such obligations to the party
from its members as necessarily arise from the nature and
purpose of party government.. ...

NIXON v. CONDON.
73

McREYNOLDS,

J., dissenting.

"We are forced to conclude that it Would not be beyond
the power of the party through a customary agency such
as its state executive committee to adopt regulations designed merely to enforce an obligation arising from the
very act of a voter in participating in party control and
party action, though the stattites were silent on the
subject ... .
" The decision in Love v. Wilcox.. 119 Tex. 256, gave
effect to the legislative intent by vacating action of the
State Committee violative of express and v alid statutes.
Our answer to the certified question likewise gives effect
to the legislative intent in upholding action of the State

Committee in entire accord with the governing statutes
as well as with party custom."

The reasoning advanced by the court to support its
conclusion indicates some inadvertence or possibly con-

fusion. The difference between statutes which recognize
and those which confer power is not always remarked,
e. g., "With regard to the state committee's power to
exact this pledge the statutes are by no means silent. The

statutes do not deny the power but plainly recognize and
confer same." But the decision itself is a clear affirmation of the general powers of the State Executive Committee under party custom to speak for the party and
especially to prescribe the prerequisites for membership
and for "voters of said political party*" in the absence
of statutory inhibition. The point actually ruled is inconsistent with the notion that the Executive Committee
does not speak for the organization; also inconsistent with
the view that the Committee's powers derive from State
statutes.
If statutory recognition of the authority of a political
party through its Executive Committee to determine who
shall participate therein gives to the resolves of such
party or committee the character and effect of action by
the State, of course the same rule mugt apply when party

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
McREYNOLDS,

J., dissenting.

286 U.S.

conventions are so treated; and it would be'difficult
logically to deny like effect to the rules and by-laws of
social or business clubs, corporations, and religious associations, etc., organized under charters or general enactments. The State acts through duly qualified officers
and not through the representatives of mere voluntary
associations.
Such authority as the State of. Texas has to legislate
concerning party primaries is derived in part from her
duty to secure order, prevent fraud, etc., and in part from
obligation to prescribe appropriate methods for selecting
candidates whose names shall appear upon the official
ballots used at regular elections.
Political parties are fruits of voluntary action. 1Where
there is no unlawful purpose, citizens may create them
at will and limit their membership as seems wise. The
State may not interfere. White men may organize;
blacks may do likewise. A woman's party may exclude
males. This much is essential to free government.
. If any political party as such desires to avail
itself of the
privilege of designating candidates-whose names shall be
.placed on official ballots by the State it must yield to
reasonable conditions precedent laid down by the statutes.
But its general powers are not derived from the State ahd
proper restrictions or recognition of powers cannot become
grants.
It must be inferred from the provisions in herstatutes
and from the opinions of her. courts that 'the State, of
Texas has intended .to leave political parties ,free to determine who shall be admitted to membership and privileges, provided that none shall be excluded for reasons
which are definitely stated and that the prescribed tules
in respect of primaries shall be observed in order to secure
official recognition of nominees therein for entry upon the
ballots intended for use at general elections.

NIXON v. CONDON.
73

McREYNOLDS,

J., dissenting.

By the enactment now questioned the Legislature refrained from interference with the essential liberty of
party associations and recognized their general power to
define membership therein.
The words of the statute disclose such purpose and the
circumstances attending its passage add emphasis. The
Act of 1923 had forbidden negroes to participate in Democratic primaries. Nixon v. Herndon (March, 1927) supra,
held the inhibition invalid. Shortly thereafter (June,:
1927) the Legislature repealed it and adopted the Article
now numbered 3107 (Rev. Stats. 1928) and here under
consideration. The fair conclusion is, that accepting our
ruling as conclusive the lawmakers intended expressly to
rescind action adjudged beyond their powers and then
clearly to announce recognition of the general right of
political parties to prescribe qualifications for membership. The contrary view disregards the words, that
"every political party . . . shall in its own way determine wh6 shall be qualified to vote or otherwise participate in such political party "; and really imputes to the
Legislature an attempt indirectly to circumvent the judgment of this Court. We should repel this gratuitous
imputation; it is vindicated by no significant fact.
The notion that the statute converts the Executive
Committee into an agency of the State also lacks support.
The language employed clearly imports that the politicalparty, not the State, may act through the Committee.
As shown above, since the Act of 1903 the Texas laws have
recognized the authority of Executive Committees to announce the party will touching membership.
And if to the considerations already stated there be
added the rule announced over and over again that, when
possible, statutes must be so construed as to avoid uncoistitutionality, there can remain no substantial reason for
upsetting the Legislature's laudable effort to retreat from

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Syllabus.

286 U.S.

an untenable position by repealing the earlier act, and
then declare the existence of party control over membership therein to the end that there might be orderly
conduct of party affairs, including primary elections.
The resolution of the Executive Committee was the
voice of the party and took from appellant no right guaranteed by the Federal Constitution or laws. It was incumbent upon the judges of the primary to obey valid
orders from the Executive Committee. They inflicted no
wrong upon Nixon.
A judgment of affirmance should be entered.

I am authorized to say that MR.

JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER, MR. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND and MR. JUSTICE BUTLER

concur in this opinion.

UNITED STATES v. SWIFT & CO. ET AL.*
APPEALS FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.

No. 568.

Argued March 17, 18, 1932.-Decided May 2, 1932.

1. A court of equity has power to modify a continuing decree of injunction which is directed, not to the protection of rights fully
accrued upon facts substantially permanent, but to the supervision
of future conduct in relation to changing conditions. P. 114.
2. This power, if not reserved expressly in the decree, is still inherent;
and it is the same whether the decree was entered by consent or
after litigation. Id.
3. The decree in this case is to be treated as a judicial act, not as a
contract; the consent to it was directed to events as they then were
and was not an abandonment of the right to exact revision in the
future, if revision should become necessary in adaptation to events
to be. P. 115.
Together with No. 569, American Wholesale Grocers Assn. et al. v.
Swift & Co. et al.; and No. 570, National Wholesale Grocers Assn. v.
Same.

