352

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Syllabus.

286 U.S.

CONTINENTAL BAKING CO. ET AL. V. WOODRING,
GOVERNOR, ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

FOR THE DISTRICT OF KANSAS.
No. 677.

Argued April 25, 1932.-Decided May 23, 1932.

1. The- use of public highways by private intrastate and interstate
carriers of goods by motor may be conditioned by the State upon
the carrier's obtaining a license, complying with reasonable regulations, paying a reasonable license fee and a tax, for expenses of
highway administration and maintenance and reconstruction of the
highways covered by the license, and upon the filing of an insurance
policy as security against injuries from the carrier's negligent operations to persons and property other than the passengers and property he carries. P. 365.
2. In the exercise of itsoright to demand compensation for the special
highway facilities it has provided, and of its power to regulate the
use of its highways in the interest of the public safety, a State may
properly treat motor vehicles as a special class, because of the
special damage to the highways and special dangers to the public
attending their operation. Id.
3. The Kansas Motor Vehicle Act taxes motor carriers on a basis of
gross ton miles for the use of state highways, but exempts (a) those
operating wholly within a city or village and (b) private motor
carriers operating "within a radius of twenty-five miles beyond the
corporate limits of such city, or any village." In the latter aspect
it is construed as confined to carriers having an established place
of business or base of operations within a city or village and exempting them as to their truck movements there and within the extended
zone, but as subjecting them to the tax on mileage outside of the
zone. Held that the exemption is not so uncertain as to render the
tax void. P. 366.
4. The Kansas Motor Vehicle Act, the provisions of which apply in
part to both common and private carriers using the state highways,
but which makes a clear distinction between the two classes, in
that the former, but not the latter, are required to obtain certificates
of public convenience and necessity and are subject to rate-regula-.
tion, vests authority in a commission to "regulate and supervise
accounts, schedules, service and method of operation," "to prescribe a uniform system and classification of accounts," to require

CONTINENTAL BAKING CO. v. WOODRING. 353
352

Syllabus.

the filing of reports, etc., and generally to "supervise and regulate
all the carriers to which it applies "in -all matters affecting the
relationship" between such carriers and "the traveling and shipping public.' Held:
(1) Apprehension that the commission may, under this authority,
invade the constitutional rights, of private carriers by regulations
lawful only in respect of common carriers, is not ground for injunction in the absence of any action or threat of action on its
part. Smith v. Cahoon, 283 U. S. 553, distinguished. P. 367.
(2) The provisions as to records, reports and accounts may, in
the case of private carriers, be assumed to relate to the determination of the amount of gross ton mileage tax to which such carriers
are properly liable. Id.
(3) The general grant of authority over both private and public
carriers in all matt ers affecting their relationship with the traveling
and shipping public, should be taken distributively. Id.
5. The declaration of this statute that all powers of the Kansas Public
Service Commission over common carriers are thereby made applicable "to all such motor carriers," applies to public and not to
private carriers. P. 369.
6. The duty of the commission under the Act to insist that motor
vehicles shall be maintained in a safe and sanitary condition, to
prescribe qualifications of operators as to age and hours of service,
and to require the reporting of accidents, has manifest reference
to considerations of safety. Id.
7. A state law regulating motor carrie'rs and taxing them on a mileage
b~asis is not offensive to the equal protection clause of the Fourteenth Amendment because it does not extend to those who operate
wholly within a city or village and who are subject to the regula.tions of the municipality. P. 369.
8. It is also permissible classification to extend such exemption to
private carriers, having headquarters or base of operations within
the municipality, in respect of the movements of their delivery
trucks within a zone surrounding the municipality, because of the
slight use by such carriers of the state highways outside of the
municipality, and because of the practical difficulty, and the cost,
of keeping track of the mileage of. the trucks for the purpose of
assessing a mileage tax. P. 370.
9. Fixing the width of the zone in which the state Motor Vehicle Act
shall not operate in such cases, at 25 miles beyond the municipality,
was not arbitrary but a valid exercise of legislative discretion.

354

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Argument for Appellants.

286 U.S.

10. The provision in the Kansas Motor Vehicle Act that it shall not
apply to "the transportation of livestock and farm products to
market by the owner thereof or supplies for his own use in his
own motor vehicle," is likewise based on permissible classification.
Smith v. Cahoon, 283 U. S. 553, distinguished. Pp. 371-373.
11. The legislature in making its classification was entitled to consider
frequency and character of use and to adapt its regulations to the
classes of operations which by reason of their habitual and constant use of the highways brought about the conditions making
regulation imperative and created the necessity for the imposition
of a tax for maintenance and reconstruction. P. 373.
12. The public interest in the transportation of children to and from
.school justifies exemption of that form of transportation from the
statute. Id.
55 F. (2d) 347, affirmed.

APPEAL from a decree of the District Court of three
judges which dismissed the bill in a suit to restrain enforcement of the Motor Vehicle Act of Kansas.
Messrs. Charles R. Wilk' and John C. Grover, submitted for appellants.
The Act discriminates against appellants and other carriers in the following particulars:
Motor vehicles that operate wholly withih a city or village are exempt from the tax, from the regulations of the
Public Service Commission, and from the provisions as
to license and insurance. These exemptions do not apply
to appellants' trucks from plants outside the State, or
not located in a city or village in the State, while operating in the same city or village.
Any non-exempted truck passing through a number of
cities and villages, is taxed on mileage therein and the
tax doeN not go to maintain the roads in such cities or
Villages. 'Yet the only constitutional justification for such
a tax is ai compensation for the use of the highways.
More motor vehicles operate in the cities and villages
than operate on the state highways. To exempt this
majority from license, regulation and compulsory in-

CONTINENTAL BAKING CO. v. WOODRING. 355
352

Argument for Appellants.

surance, where regulation is most important, is a discrimination against vehicles and their operators in regions
where such requirements are less necessary.
The 25-mile limitation can not be justified on the basis
of the cost of administration. It does not eliminate a
small user should he get over the 25-mile limit, yet it
permits the extensive user to operate within many hundred square miles without payment of the, tax. The
exemption from the requirement of insurance and frowu
other provisions of motor safety regulation is a discrimination, and unconstitutional for the reasons set forth in
:the Cahoon case, 283 U. S. 553.
The purpose of this Act, as stated by the court in this
and the Louis case, 53 F. (2d) 473, is to provide a tax
for the use of the highways as additional compensation
to the State over the present gasoline and other taxes.
The cities and villages take care of their own roads and
streets. Outside of the cities and villages the State must
tax everyone uniformly and not arbitrarily for the use
of the highways. To exempt one mile outside would
be unfair and arbitrary. So of five, ten, fifteen, twentyfive or one hundred miles. If the tax is not to be discriininatory or arbitrary, the vicinity near the cities
should be taxed as much as the outlying districts. The
reason given by the court below, that the city or village
itself would require bonds and licenses, does not apply
to the outside zone, as no city or village has any jurisdiction outside its own limits. A truck having a city
license and giving bond as protection to the public within
the city, would have this territory outside of the city
without any requirement of license or bond either under
this Act or by the city. Cf. Smith v. Cahoon, 283 U. S.
553, 566, 567.
The exemption of the transportation of live stock and
farm products to market by the owner thereof, or supplies

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Counsel for Appellees.

286 U.S.

'for his own use in his own motor vehicle, is also unconstitutional. Smith v. Cahoon, supra.
, The public safety provision in the case of children is

even more important than in that of adults. Why in
the transportation of children should the Act exempt the
driver of their vehicle from the regulatory measures of

the Act?

Either §§ 2, 17, 19, 23, and 24 of the Act, taken in
conjunction with the entire Act, impose upon the appellants obligations to which the State had no constitutional
authority to subject them, or they failed to define such

obligations with a fair degree of certainty, which is required of crimirtal statutes.
Sections 5, 8, 16, 17, 19, 22, and 23, in conjunction with
the other provisions of the Act, give to the Public Service Commission excessive powers over private motor carriers of property-, equal to, or even exceeding, the
powers which they have over common carriers of property. The legislature may not make a private carrier a
common carrier and so compel it to devote its property to
public use. Producers Transport Co. v. Railway Commission, 251 U. S. 228; Michigan Pub. Util. Comm. v.
Duke, 266 U. S. 570; Frost v. Railroad Commission, 271

U. S. 583.
Section 21 of the Act, in requiring private motor carriers of property to take out and have approved by the
Public Service Commission a liability insurance policy
to adequately protect the interests of the public, unduly
extends the power of the State in the regulation of
private motor carriers of property. Smith v. Cahoon,
283 U. S. 553, 565.
Mr. Walter T. Griffin, with whom Messrs. Roland
Boynton, Attorney General of Kansas, Charles W. Steiger,
and EarlH. Hatcher were on the brief for appellees.

CONTINENTAL BAKING 00. v. WOODRING. 357
352

Opinion of the Court.

MR.CHIEF JUSTICE HUGHES delivered the opinion of
the Court.
This is an appeal from a final decree
of the District
Court, composed of three judges as required by statute,
which dismissed, on motion, the bill of complaint in a
suit brought to restrain the enforcement of the Motor
Vehicle Act of Kansas. Laws of 1931, c. 236; Continental
Baking Co. v. Woodring, 55 F. (2d)-347.
Plaintiffs are "private motor carriers of property,"
operating bakeries in Kansas and other States and making deliveries to their customers by their own trucks.
They contend that the statute, by reason of the obligations it imposes, and of its classifications, violates the
due process and equal protection clauses of the Fourteenth
Amendment, the provision as to the privileges and immunities of citizens (Art. IV, §. 2), and the commerce
clause (Art. I, § 8, par. 3), of the Federal Constitution.
The statute relates to motor vehicles, comprehensively
defined, when used upon any public highway of the State
for the purpose of transporting persons or property. It
applies to those who are engaged in such transportation
as" public motor carriers" of property and passengers,
" contract motor carriers" of property and passengers,
and "private motor carriers of property." "Public
motor carrier" means one transporting "for hire as a
common carrier having a [sic] fixed termini or route."
" Contract motor carrier" of property means one who is
not a "public motor carrier " and is engaged in transportation "for hire as a business." "Private motor
carrier of property" means' one transporting "property
sold or to be sold by him in furtherance of any private
commercial enterprise." § 1.' The Act does not apply
, Section 1 (a). The term 'motor vehicle' when used in this act
means any automobile, automobile truck, trailer, motor bus, or any
other self-propelled or motor-driven vehicle used upon any public

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

286 U.S.

to (1) motor carriers operating wholly within any city
or village of the State, (2) private motor carriers operating within a radius'of twenty-five miles beyond the
corporate limits of such city or village, (3) the transportation of livestock and farm products to market "by the
owner thereof or supplies for his own use in his own motor
vehicle," and (4) the transportation of children to and
from school. § 2.2 Public motor carriers are declared to
be common carriers within the meaning of the public
utility laws of the State and subject to regulation accordhighway of this state for the purpose of transporting persons or
property. (b) The term 'public motor-carrier of property' when
used in this act shall mean any person engaged in the transportation
by motor vehicle of property for hire as a common carrier having a
[sic] fixed termini or route. (c) The term 'contract motor carrier
of property' when used in this act shall be construed to mean any
person not a public motor carrier of property engaged in the transportation by motor vehicle of property for hire as a business. (d)
The term 'private motor carrier of property' when used in this act
shall be construed to mean any person engaged in the transportation
by motor vehicle of property sold or to be sold by him in furtherance
of any private commercial enterprise. (e) The term 'public motor
carrier .of passengers' when used in this act shall mean any person
engaged in the transportation by motor vehicle of passengers or express for hire as a common carrier having a fixed termini or route.
(f) The term 'contract motor carrier of passengers' when used in
this act shall be construed to mean any person not a public motor
carrier of passengers engaged in the transportation by motor vehicle
of passengers or express for hire. (g) The term '-public highway'
when used in this act shall mean every public street, road or highway or thoroughfare of any kind used by the public."
'"Sec. 2. That this act shall not apply to motor carriers who shall
operate wholly within any city or village of this state, or private
motor carriers who operate within a radius of twenty-five miles
beyond the corporate limits of such city, or any village, nor io the
transportation of livestock and farm products to market by the
owner thereof or supplies for his own use in his own motor vehicle;
or to the transportation of children to and from school."

CONTINENTAL BAKING CO. v. WOODRING. 359
352

Opinion of the Court.

ingly, including that of rates and charges. § 38 Public
motor carriers, contract motor carriers, and private motor
carriers of property are forbidden to operate motor vehicles for compensation on any public highway. except in accordance with the provisions of the Act. § 44 The
public service commission is vested with supervision of
these carriers in all matters affecting their relationship
"with the traveling and shipping public" and, specifically, to prescribe regulations in certain particulars hereinafter mentioned. § 5.5 All transportation charges made
" Sec. 3. All 'public motor carriers of property or passengers' as
(Cefined in this act are hereby declared to be common carriers within
the meaning of the public utility laws of this state, and are hereby
declared to be affected with a public interest and subject to this
act and to the laws of this state, including ihe regulation of all rates
and charges now in force or that hereafter may be enacted, pertaining
to public utilities and common carriers as far as applicable, and not
in conflict herewith."
"'Sec. 4. No public motor carrier of property or passengers, contract motor carrier of property or passengers or private motor carrier of property shall operate any motor vehicle for the transportation of either persons or property for compensation on any public
highway in this state except in accordance with the provisions of
this act."
" Sec. 5. The public service commission is hereby vested with
power and authority and it shall be its duty to license, supervise and
regulate every public motor carrier of property or of passengers in
this state and to fix and approve reasonable maximum or minimum
or maximum and minimum rates, fares, charges, classifications and
rules and regulations pertaining thereto. And the public service commission is hereby vested with power and authority and it shall be its
duty to license, supervise and regulate every public motor carrier of
property or of passengers, contract motor carrier of property or of
passengers and private motor carrier of property in the state and to
regulate and supervise the accounts, schedules, service and method of
operation of same; to prescribe a uniform system and classification
of accounts to be used; to require the filing of annual and other
reports and any other data; and to supervise and regulate 'public

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

286 U.S.

.by public motor carriers must be just and reasonable.
§ 6. Public motor carriers in intrastate commerce must
obtain certificates of convenience,and necessity. § 7.
Contract motor carriers and private motor carriers of property "either in intrastate commerce or in interstate commerce" must obtain licenses. Application therefor must
give information as to ownership, financial condition and
equipment, and such further facts as the public service
commission may request. The commission is required,
upon receipt of this information and on compliance with
the regulations and payment of fees, to issue a license.
§ 8:' In addition to license fees, public motor carriers, contract motor carriers and private motor carriers of property
must pay a tax of "five-tenths mill per gross ton mile,"
computed in the manner described, for the administramotor carriers of property or of passengers,' ' contract motor carriers
of property or of passengers' and 'private motor carriers of property,' in all matters affecting the relationship between such 'public
motor carriers of property or of passengers,' ' contract motor carriers
of property or of passengers' and 'private motor carriers of property' and the traveling and shipping public. The public service
commission shall have power and authority by general order or otherwise to prescribe reasonable and necessary rules and regulations
governing all such motor carriers. All laws relating to the powers,
duties, authority and jurisdiction of the public service commission
over common carriers are hereby made applicable to all such motor
carriers except as herein otherwise specifically provided."
" See. 8. It shall be unlawful for any 'contract motor carrier of
property or passengers' or 'private motor carrier of property' to
operate as a-carrier of property or passengers within this state either
in intrastate commerce or in interstate commerce -without first having
obtained from the public service commission a license therefor. An
application shall be made to the public service commission in writing
stating the ownership, financial condition, equipment -to be used and
physical property of the applicant, and such other information as the
commission may request. Upon receipt of such information and on
compliance with the regulations and payment of fees, the public service commission shall issue a license to such. applicant."

CONTINENTAL BAKING CO. v. WOODRING. 361
352

Opinion of the Court.

tion of the Act and for the maintenance and reconstruction of the public highways. § 13.1 Every motor carrier
covered by the Act must keep daily records, upon prescribed forms, of all vehicles used and must certify under
oath summaries showing the ton miles traveled monthly
and such other information as the commission may require. § 15.8 The commission is empowered to enforce
the provisions of the Act and to inspect the books and
documents of all carriers to which the Act applies. § 16.1
'"Sec. 13. In addition to the regular license fees or taxes imposed
upon 'public motor carriers of property or of passengers,' 'contract
motor carriers of property or of passengers,' and ' private motor
carriers of property,' there shall be assessed against and collected
from every such carrier a tax of five-tenths mill per gross ton mile
for the administration of this act and for the maintenance, repair
and reconstruction of the public highways. The said gross ton mileage shall be computed: (a) The maximum seating capacity of each
passenger carrying vehicle shall be estimated at 150 pounds per passenger seat; to this sum shall be added the weight of the vehicle,
the total shall then be multiplied by the number of miles operated,
and the amount thus obtained divided by 2,000; (b) 200 per cent
of the rated capacity of each property carrying vehicle plus the
weight of the vehicle shall be multiplied by the number of miles the
vehicle is operated, and the amount thus obtained divided by 2,000."
' Sec. 15. Every motor carrier to which this act applies shall keep
daily records upon forms prescribed by the commission of all vehicles
used during the current month. On or before the 25th day of the
month following, they shall certify under oath to the commission,
upon forms prescribed therefor, summaries of their daily records
which shall show the ton miles traveled during the preceding month,
and such other information as the commission may require. ... "
" Sec. 16. The commission is hereby empowered to administer and
enforce all provisions of this act, to inspect the books and documents
of all carriers to which this act applies, and to expend such amount
of the sum collected hereunder as is necessary for such purposes upon
requisition by the commission to the state auditor: Provided, however, The total sum to be expended as provided in this section shall
not exceed during the calendar year twenty per cent of the total
gross sum collected under this act ..

362

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

286 U.S.

Of the moneys received under the provisions of the Act
twenty per cent. is to be applied to administration and
enforcement and the remainder is to be placed to the
credit of the State's highway fund. § 18.1° No certificate or license is to be issued by the commission to any
of the described motor carriers until a liability insurance
policy approved by the commission has been filed "in
such reasonable sum as the commission may deem
necessary to adequately protect the interests of the public with due regard to the number of persons and amount
of property involved, which liability insurance shall bind
the obligors thereunder to pay compensation for injuries
to persons and loss of or damage to property resulting
from the negligent operation of such carrier." No other
or additional bonds or licenses than those prescribed in
the Act are to be required by any city or town or other
agency of the state. § 21.11 The commission may pro." See. 18. All moneys received under the provisions of this act
shall be,distributed: (a) For administration and enforcement of the
provisions of this act, twenty per cent shall be held by the state
treasurer for the use of the public service commission; (b) the balance
the said treasurer shall place to the credit of the highway fund of
the state and it shall-become a part thereof."
' "Sec. 21. No certificate or license shall be issued by the public
service commission to any'public motor carrier of property,' 'public
motor carrier of passengers,' ' contract motor carrier of property or
passengers' or 'private motor carrier of property,' until and after
such applicant shall have filed with, and the same has been approved
by, the public service commission, a liability insurance policy in some
insurance company or association authorized to transact business in
this state, in such reasonable sum as the commission may deem necessary to adequately protect the interests of the public with due regard
to the number of persons and amount of property involved, which
liability insurance shall bind the obligors thereunder to pay compensation for injuries to persons and loss of or damage to property
resulting from the negligent operation of such carrier. No other or
additional bonds or licenses than those prescribed in this act shall be
required of any motor carrier by any city or town or other agency
of the state."

CONTINENTAL BAKING CO. v. WOODRING.
352

363

Opinion of the Court.

mulgate rules relating to the maintenance of vehicle
units in a safe and sanitary condition, and making provision as to qualifications and hours of service of operators and for the reporting of accidents. § 22.12 Violation
of the Act or of any order of the commission is made a
misdemeanor. § 23.'
Sec. 22. The commission shall promulgate and publish in the
official state paper, and mail to each holder of a certificate or license
hereunder, such regulations as it may deem necessary to properly
carry out the provisions and purposes of this act. The commission
may at any time, for good cause, suspend, and, upon at least five
days' notice to the grantee of any certificate and an opportunity to
be heard, revoke or amend any certificate. Upon the commission
finding that any public carrier does not give convenient, efficient and
sufficient service as ordered, such public carrier shall be given a
reasonable time to provide such service before any existing certificate
is revoked or a new certificate granted. Any rules promulgated by
the commission shall include: (a) Every vehicle unit shall be maintained in a safe and sanitary condition at all times. (b) Every
operator of a motor vehicle used as a public carrier shall be at least
twenty-one years of age; and every operator of other carriers to which
this act applies shall be at least sixteen years of age; and all such
operators shall be of good moral character and fully competent to
operate the motor vehicle under his charge. (c) Hours of service
for operators of all motor carriers to which this act applies shall be
fixed by the commission. (d) Accidents arising from or in connection with the operation of carriers shall be reported to the commission in such detail and in such manner as the commission may require: Provided, That the failure to report any such accident within
five days after the happening thereof shall be deemed willful refusal
to obey and comply with a rule of the commission. (e) The commission shall require and every carrier shall have attached to each
unit or vehicle such distinctive marking as shall be adopted by the
commission."
" Sec. 23. Every carrier to which this act applies and every
person who violates or who procures, aids or abets in the violating
of any provision of this act, or who fails to obey ainy order, decision
or regulation of the commission, or who procures or aids or abets
any person in his failure to obey such order, decision or regulation,
shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction shall
be punished by a fine of not exceeding $500.

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

286 U.S.

The general situation to which the statute is addressed
is thus described by the District Court, 55 F. (2d) at pp.
350, 351: "The State of Kansas has constructed at great
expense a system of improved highways. These have
been built in part by special benefit districts and in part
by a tax on gasoline sold in the State and by license fees
exacted of all resident owners of automobiles. These
public highways have become the roadbeds of great transportation companies, which are actively and seriously
competing with railroads which provide their own roadbeds; they are being used by concerns such as the plaintiffs for the daily delivery of their products to every hamlet and village in the State. The highways are being
pounded to pieces by these great trucks which, combining weight With speed, are making the problem of. maintenance well-nigh insoluble. The Legislature but voiced
the sentiment of the entire State in deciding that those
who daily use the highways for commercial purposes
should pay an additional tax. Moreover, these powerful
and speedy trucks are the menace of the highways."
It is apparent that Kansas, in framing its legislation to
meet these conditions, did not attempt to compel private
carriers to become public carriers. The legislature did
not purport to put both classes of carriers upon an identical footing and subject them to the same obligations.
See Smith v. Cahoon, 283 U. S. 553, 563; Michigan Commission v. Duke, 266 U. S. 570, 576-578; Frost Trucking
Co. v. Railroad Comm., 271 U. S. 583, 592. 'It recognized
.and applied distinctions. 'Public' or common carriers,
and not private carriers, are required to obtain certificates
of public convenience and necessity. The former, and
not the latter, are put under regulations as to fares' and
charges. While, with respect to certain matters, both are
placed under the general authority given to the public
service commission to prescribe regulations, it does not
appear from the bill of complaint that any regulation has

CONTINENTAL BAKING CO. v. WOODRING. 365
Opinion of the Court.

352

been prescribed, or that the commission has made any
order, of which private carriers may properly complain.
The statute itself, however, does impose certain obligations upon private motor carriers of property, and the
first question is whether these provisions violate the constitutional restrictions invoked.
First. " Private motor carriers of property" must obtain a license, pay a tax and file a liability insurance policy. The public service commission has no authority to
refuse a license if the described information is given with
the application, the liability insurance policy is filed, and
there is compliance with the regulations and payment of
the license fee (§ 8)." It is not shown that either regulations or license fees are unreasonable. The tax and the
license fees, over the expenses of administration, go to the
highway fund of the State for the maintenance and reconstruction of the highways the carrier is licensed to use.
The insurance policy is to protect the interests of the
public by securing compensation for injuries to persons
and property from negligent operations of the carriers.
§ 21.15 The District Court approved an earlier decision,
also by a District Court of three Judges, that this provision was not intended to require " security for passengers
or cargoes carried, but only to protect third persons from
injuries to their persons or property." 55 F. (2d) at p.
357; Louis v. Boynton, 53 F. (2d) 471, 473. This is an
admissible construction and no different application of
the provision appears to have been made by either the
state court or the commission.
Requirements of this sort are clearly within the
authority of the State, which may demand compensation
for the special facilities it has provided and regulate the
use of its highways to promote the public safety. Reasonable regulations to that end are valid as to intrastate
14

See Note 6.

15 See Note 11.

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

286 U.S.

traffic and, where there is no discrimination against the
interstate commerce which-may be affected, do not impose
an unconstitutional burden upon that commerce. Motor
vehicles may properly be treated as a special class, because
their movement over the highways, as this Court has said,
"is attended by constant and serious dangers to the
public, and is also abnormally destructive to the ways
themselves." Hendrick v. Maryland, 235 U. S. 610, 622;
Kane v. New Jersey, 242 U. S. 160, 167; Michigan Commission v. Duke, supra; Interstate Busses Corp. v.
Blodgett, 276 U. S. 245, 250, 251; Sprout v. South Bend,
277 U. S. 163, 169, 170; Hodge Co. v. Cincinnati, 284
U. S. 335, 337.
Objection to the tax is made on the score of uncertainty, in view of the exemptions of motor carriers operating wholly within a city or village, and of private motor
carriers operating "within a radius of twenty-five miles
beyond the corporate limits of such city, or any village." § 2."6 This objection is distinct from that of unconstitutional discrimination, shortly to be considered.
We perceive no uncertainty by reason of the first exemption, which definitely applies to cases of operation exclusively within the limits of a city or village. As to the
second exemption, the state authorities assert, and it is
not denied, that in the administration of the Act the
public service commission has taken the exemption to
mean that "so long as private carriers operate within a
radius of twenty-five miles of their home city or base
they are not subject. to the payment of the fee. Even
though they have made trips outside the twenty-five mile
radius, which subjects them to the law and to the payment of tax for such trips, they are still not subject to the
payment of a tax for trips made entirely within the
'"See Note 2.

CONTINENTAL BAKING CO. v. WOODRING. 367
352

Opinion of the Court.

twenty-five mile zone." The District Court expressed
the opinion that the provision "can and should be construed as intending to exempt from the tax those carriers who either have an established place of business or
an established delivery point, with trucks domiciled in
any city, and that such trucks may operate in that city
and within a twenty-five mile radius free of any tax,"
and the court said that it agreed with the construction
of the commission that "if such a truck goes beyond the
twenty-five mile limit," " only the excess is taxable."
55 F. (2d) at p. 356. On this construction, it cannot be
said that there is a fatal defect in definition. The tax
itself is certain, as in the process of laying the tax it is
necessarily made certain before any penalty can be imposed for non-payment. The tax is to be assessed and
collected on the basis of gross ton miles and this mileage
is to be computed in a prescribed manner. When the
tax is assessed, the ordinary remedies will be available
for contesting it, if the assessment is not in accordance
with the law. No impropriety in assessment or in collection as to these appellants, or denial of remedy, is disclosed. Nor is the amount of the tax, which the State
could lay in its discretion for the lawful purposes declared,
shown to be unreasonable.
The objection to the authority given to the public service commission "to regulate and supervise the accounts,
schedules, service and method of operation," "to prescribe
a uniform system and classification of accounts," to require the filing of reports and data, and generally to
" supervise and regulate" all the carriers to which the Act
applies "in all matters affecting the relationship " between such carriers and "the traveling and shipping public" (§ 5)17 similarly raises no question which can now be
"See

Note 5.

368

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

286 U.S.

considered, as there has been no action or threat of action,
so far as appears, by the commission giving ground for the
contention that the constitutional rights of the appellants
have been or will be invaded. This is not a case like that
of Smith v. Cahoon, supra, where the requirements of the
statute itself, as distinguished from action of the state
commission under it, had such an objectionable generality
and vagueness as to the obligations imposed upon private
carriers that they provided no standard of conduct that it was possible to know and exposed the persons concerned
to criminal prosecution before any suitably definite requirement had been prescribed. In the instant case, the
statute itself clearly distinguishes in fundamental matters
between the obligations of public and private carriers and
places upon the latter certain requirements which the
State had power to impose. Whatever uncertainty may
exist with respect to possible regulations of the commission will be resolved as regulations are promulgated. If
any of these transcend constitutional limits, appellants
will have their appropriate remedy. The provision as to
keeping records and furnishing reports and information
and as to maintaining uniform methods of accounting,
may in the case of private carriers of property be assumed,
until the contrary appears, to have relation, as the state
authorities assert, to the determination of the amount of
the tax to which the private carriers are properly liable.
The general grant of authority to the public service commission over all the carriers described, including both
public and private carriers, in all matters affecting their
relationship with the traveling and shipping public, we
think should be taken distributively in the light of the
context and of the manifest distinctions in the relation of
different sorts of carriers to the public. The distinction
made by the statute between public and private carriers
with respect to the obtaining of certificates of public con-

CONTINENTAL BAKING CO. v. WOODRING.
352

369

Opinion of the Court.

venience and necessity, and as to rates and charges, indicates the intention to keep separate the special responsibilities of public carriers from the more limited but still
important duties which are owing as well by private carriers, in protecting the public highways from misuse and
in insuring safe traffic conditions, and there is no reason
to conclude that the authority given to the commission
will not be viewed and exercised accordingly. We agree
with the District Court that the last clause of § 5, providing that "all laws relating to the powers, duties, authority and jurisdiction of the public service commission
over common carriers are hereby made applicable to all
such motor carriers except as herein otherwise specifically
provided," applies to public and not to private carriers.
The duty laid upon the commission (§ 22)" to insist
that motor vehicles shall be maintained "in a safe and
sanitary condition," to prescribe qualifications of operators as to age and hours of service, and to require the reporting of accidents, has manifest reference to considerations of safety. The terms of the statute do not require
action by th'e commission which does not have reasonable
relation to that purpose. In this respect, as well as in
relation to the other matters above-mentioned, appellants
had no right to resort to equity merely because of an anticipation of improper or invalid action in administration.
Smith v. Cahoon, supra, at p. 562; Dalton Adding Machine Co. v. State Corporation Comm., 236 U. S. 699,
700, 701; Champlin Refining Co. v. Corporation Comm.,
ante, p. 210.
Second. The challenged exemptions are set forth in
§ 2.11 The first, which excludes from the application of
the Act motor carriers who operate wholly within a city or
village of the State, has an obviously reasonable basis,
as such operations are subject to local regulations. In
"See Note 12.

1See Note 2.

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

286 U.S.

protecting its highway system the State was at liberty to
leave its local communities unembarrassed, and was not
bound either to override their regulations or to impose
burdensome additions.
The second exemption extends only to certain private
motor carriers. Under the construction above stated, the
exemption provides immunity from the provisions of the
Act for carriers of that class who have an established
place of business or base of operations within a city or village and operate within'a radius of twenty-five miles beyond the municipal limits. The first question is whether
the State, in legislation of this sort, may provide for
such carriers an exempt zone contiguous to its municipalities. We find no difficulty in concluding that it may.
As the District Court pointed out, there "is a penumbra
of town" that is outside municipal limits, and delivery
trucks, of those having establishments within the municipalities, in their daily routine repeatedly cross these limits
"in going back and forth into these outlying additions."
The court found that trucks of that class "use the state
improved highways but slightly, for the streets of these
outlying additions are not generally a part of the state
system." The District Court also directed attention to
the fact that "the practical difficulty of keeping track
of the mileage of such delivery trucks as they cross back
and forth is well-nigh insuperable" and that "the revenue to be gained from such use would be insignificant and
the cost of collection large." We think that the legislature could properly take these distinctions into account
and that there was a reasonable basis for differentiation
with respect to that class of operations. In this view, the
question is simply whether the fixing of the radius at
twenty-five miles is so entirely arbitrary as to be unconstitutional. It is obvious that the legislature in. setting
up such a zone would have to draw the line somewhere,

CONTINENTAL BAKING CO. v. WOODRING. 371
352

Opinion of the Court.

and unquestionably it had a broad discretion as to where
the line should be drawn.. In exercising that discretion,
the legislature was not bound to resort to close distinctions or to attempt to define the particular differentiations
as to traffic conditions in territory bordering on its various municipalities. Ohio Oil Co. v. Conway, 281 U. S.
146, 159. This Court has frequently held that the mere
selection of a mileage basis in the regulation of railroads
cannot be considered a violation of the Federal Constitution. The practical convenience of such a classification
is not to be disregarded in the interest of a purely theoretical or scientific uniformity. Columbus & Greenville Ry. Co. v. Miller, 283 U. S.96, 101; Dow v. Beidelman, 125 U. S. 680, 691; New York, N. H. & H. R. Co. v.
New York, 165 U. S. 628, 633, 634; Chicago, R. I.
& P. Ry. Co. v. Arkansas, 219 U. S. 453; Chesapeake &
Ohio Ry. Co. v. Conley, 230 U. S. 513, 522; St. Louis, I. M.
& S. Ry. Co. v. Arkansas, 240 U. S. 518, 521; Wilson v.
New, 243 U. S. 332, 341, 354; Clark v. Maxwell, 282 U. S.
811; Chicago, R. I. & P. Ry. Co. v. United States, 284
U. S. 80, 93. No controlling considerations have been
presented to overcome the presumption attaching to the
legislative action in this case in fixing the radius of the
zone for the purpose of establishing an exemption otherwise valid.
The third exemption applies to "the transportation
of livestock and farm products to market by the
owner thereof or supplies for his own use in his own motor
vehicle." In Smith v. Cahoon, supra, the state statute,
which applied to all carriers for compensation over regular routes, including common carriers, exempted from
its provisions "any transportation company engaged exclusively in the transporting of agricultural, horticultural,
dairy or other farm products and fresh and salt fish and
oysters and shrimp from the point of production to the

372

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

286 U.S.

assembling or shipping point en route to primary market,
or to motor vehicles used exclusively in transporting or
delivering dairy products.". The stated distinction was
thus established between carriers, and between private carriers, notwithstanding the fact that they were "alike engaged in transporting property for compensation over
public highways between fixed termini or over a regular
route." The Court was unable to find any justification
for this discrimination between carriers in the same business, that is, between those who carried' for hire farm
products, or milk or butter, or fish or oysters, and those
who carried for hire bread or sugar, or tea or coffee, or
groceries in general', or other useful commodities.
The distinction in the instant case is of a different sort.
The statute does not attempt to impose an arbitrary discrimination between carriers who transport property for
hire, or compensation, with respect to the class of products they carry. The exemption runs only to one who is
carrying his own livestock and farm products to market.
or supplies for his own use in his own motor vehicle. In
sustaining the exemption, the District Court referred to
the factual basis for the distinction. "The legislature
knew," said the court "that as a matter of fact farm
products are transported to town by the farmer, or by
a non-exempt 'contract carrier' employed by him. The
legislature knew that as a matter of fact the use of the
highways for the transportation of farm products by
the owner is casual and infrequent and incidental; farmers use the highways to transport their products to market ordinarily but a few times a year. The legislature
rightly concluded that the use of the highways for carrying home his groceries in his 'own automobile is adequately compensated by the general tax imposed on all
motor vehicles." 55 F. (2d) at p. 352. And the court
properly excluded from consideration mere hypothetical

CONTINENTAL BAKING CO. v. WOODRING.
352

373

Opinion of the Court.

and fanciful illustrations of possible discriminations which
had no basis in the actual experience to which the statute
was addressed. The court found a practical difference between the case of the appellants "who operate fleets of
trucks in the conduct of their business and who use the
highways daily in the delivery of their products to their
customers," and that of "a farmer who hauls his wheat or
livestock to town once or twice a year." The legislature in
making its classification was entitled to consider frequency
and character of use and to adapt its regulations to the
classes of operations, which by reason of their habitual and
constant use of the highways brought about the conditions
making regulation imperative and created the-necessity
for the imposition of a tax for maintenance and reconstruction. As the Court said in Alward v. Johnson, 282
U. S. 509, 513, 514: "The distinction between property
employed in conducting a business which requires constant and unusual use of the highways, and property not
so employed, is plain enough." See, also, Bekins Van
Lines v. Riley, 280 U. S. 80, 82; Carley & Hamilton v.
Snook,281 U. S. 66, 73.
The fourth exemption is "of transportation of children
to and from school." The distitict public interest in this
sort of transportation affords sufficient reason for the
classification. The State was not bound to seek revenue
for its highways from that source, and, without violating
appellants' constitutional rights, could avail itself of other
means of assuring safety in that class of cases.
Appellants also refer to the provision of § 21, with
respect to liability insurance, that "no other or additional
bonds or licenses" shall be required "by any city or town
or other agency of this State." The propriety of this
avoidance of a duplication of security is apparent.

Decree affirmed.

