OCTOBER TERM, 1931.

444

Statement of the Case.

286 U.S.

safety from other undisclosed dangers, or to interrupt his
own otherwise lawful occupations to provide for the
chance that someone may be unlawfully there."
In support of that statement, Turess v. N. Y., Susq. &
West. R. Co., 61 N. J. L. 314; 40 Atl. 614, among other
cases, is cited. There the court rejected the contention
that the railroad company was liable for an injury to a
child who had come upon the property of the company
and been injured while playing on a turntable, which was
claimed to be an attractive nuisance. See also Kaproli
v. Central R. R. of N. J., 105 N. J. L. 225; 143 Atl. 343.
The effect of the Hilt decision is to accept the state statute, as construed by the state court, as having put a negative upon the implied invitation and attractive nuisance
doctrines; and the same statute necessarily controls here
whatever, otherwise, might be the rule.
Judgment reversed.

HARDEMAN v. WITBECK.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIFTH CIRCUIT.

No. 503. Argued April 12, 1932.-Decided May 23, 1932.

In order to avail of the preference right to a permit to prospect for
oil and gas allowed by the Leasing Act to one who has erected a
monument and posted the presciibed notice, applicant within thirty
days thereafter must not only file his application but must also
pay the application fee required by the regulations. P. 446.
51 F. (2d) 450, affirmed.
CERTIORARI,

284 U. S. 613, to review the reversal of a

decree adjudging the present petitioner to. be the beneficial owner of a prospecting permit that had been issued
to the respondent by the Land Department.

HARDEMAN v. WITBECK.
444

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. Patrick H. Loughran for petitioner.
Mr. Sidney L. Herold, with whom Mr. Francis W.
Clements was on the brief, for respondent.
MR. JusTICE BUTLER delivered the opinion of the Court.
This suit was brought by petitioner in the district court
for western Louisiana against respondent to have the
former adjudged the beneficial owner of a permit issued
May 6, 1925, by the Secretary of the Interior to respondent under ยง 13 of the Leasing Act,* granting the latter
the right to prospect for oil and gas upon 40 acres of land
in that State. That court entered a decree for petitioner.
The Circuit Court of Appeals reversed. 51 F. (2d) 450.
Section 13 authorizes the Secretary, under such necessary and proper rules and regulations as he may prescribe, to grant to an applicant qualified under the Act
a permit to prospect for oil or gas upon land wherein the
deposits belong to the United States and are not within a
known geological structure of a producing oil or gas field.
It provides that, if one shall cause to be erected upon the
land for which the permit is sought a monument and shall
post a notice in specified form, he shall during the period
of 30 days thereafter be entitled to a preference right over
others to a permit on the land so identified. A regulation,
ยง 5 (b), 47 L. D. 441, declares that, if no application is
filed within that time, the land will be subject to any
other application or to other disposal. Pursuant to authority given him by ยง 38 the Secretary prescribed a
schedule of fees and commissions for transaetions under
the Act: For receiving and acting on each application for
a permit filed in the district land office there shall be
charged a fee in no case to be less than $10, to be paid
*

Act of February 25, 1920, c. 85, 41 Stat. 437, 441.

446

4OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

286 U.S.

by the applicant and considered as earned when paid,
and to be credited in equal parts on the compensation of
the register and receiver. ยง 31 (a), p. 461.
On November 12, 1923, respondent, complying with
the law and regulations, applied for a permit to prospect
upon the land and paid the required amount. December
11, petitioner, claiming the preference right given by
the Act, filed an application for a permit to prospect upon
the same tract. The substance of the application was
that on November 11, he had erected the monument and
posted a notice on the land as required by the statute.
But he did not tender or pay the required fee until December 19. In the contest that followed it was finally
held in an opinion promulgated by the Secretary that,
petitioner having failed to pay the required amount
within the time allowed, respondent was entitled to have
the permit. 51 L. D. 36.
Petitioner's application was later than respondent's and
he had no ground upon which to claim a permit in the
absence of a preference right. In order to secure that
right, full compliance with the law and regulations was
necessary. The declaration that the fee is for "receiving and acting" on the application and is "to be considered as earned when paid" strongly confirms the inference, which would exist without it, that payment is
essential to the completion of the application. When
the thirty days expired, petitioner's preference right was
at an end, and the land was subject to respondent's application for a permit..
As the Secretary rightly held petitioner not entitled
to the permit, he has no standing to maintain this suit.
FisherV. Rule, 248 U. S. 314, 318. Anicker v. Gunsburg,
246 U. S. 110, 117.
Decree affirmed.

