332

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Counsel for Parties.

286 U.S.

Commissionerv. Ginsburg Co., 54 F. (2d) 238. Only one
decision has been cited to us as favoring a different view.
National Slag Co. v. Commissioner, 47 F. (2d) 846.
The judgment is
Affirmed.
ET AL. V. HOPKINS, COLLECTOR OF INTERNAL REVENUE.

:PLANTERS COTTON OIL CO., INC.,

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIFTH CIRCUIT.

No. 672.

Argued April 20, 1932.-Decided May 16, 1932.

The owner of substantially all of the stock of two joint stock associations caused their assets to be transferred to three corporations
which he formed for carrying on the business and of which he
owned substantially all the, shares. Held that in a consolidated income tax return of all the companies net losses suffered by the joint
stock associations during the year preceding the affiliation were not
deductible. Woolford Realty Co. v. Rose, ante, p. 319. P. 333.
53 F. (2d) 825, affirmed.
CERTIORARI,

285 U. S. 533, to review the affirmance of

a judgment, 47 F. (2d) 659, dismissing the petition in
an action to recover an alleged overpayment of income
taxes.
Messrs. J. M. Burford and Win. A. Sutherland, with
whom Messrs. Joe A. Worsham and J. L. Gammon were
on the brief, for petitioners.
Mr. Whitney North Seymour, with whom Solicitor General Thacher, Assistant Attorney General Youngquist, and
Messrs. Sewall Key, Norman D. Keller, and Win. H.
Riley, Jr., were on the brief, for respondent.
Messrs. Frederick H. Wood, Hoyt A. Moore, and A.
James Slater, by leave of Court, filed a brief as amici
curiae.

PLANTERS OIL CO. v. HOPKINS.
332

Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTICE CARDOZO

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
Three corporations, Planters Cotton Oil Co., Inc.,
Waxahachie, Planters Cotton Oil Co., Inc., Ennis, and
Farmers Gins, Inc., were organized under the laws of
Texas in August and September, 1924. Two joint stock
associations, Planters Cotton Oil Company, Waxahachie,
and Planters Cotton Oil Company, Ennis, which had been
organized in earlier years, retained their separate existence. One man, H. N. Chapman, was the owner of 98%
of the shares of the unincorporated associations. He
caused the assets of those associations, or substantially
all of them, to be transferred to the newly organized corporations, and received in return substantially all the
shares of stock.
For the fiscal year ending June 30, 1925, the three
corporations and the two joint stock associations filed a
consolidated income tax return wherein the corporations,
which had earned a net income of $147,636.25, claimed a
deduction of $78,399.25 for loss suffered by the associations during the year preceding the affiliation. The deduction was disallowed, and suit was brought by the
corporation and the associations for the refund of the
tax to the extent of the overpayment claimed. The
District Court dismissed the petition, 47 F. (2d) 659; the
Court of Appeals affirmed, 53 F. (2d) 825; and by
certiorari the case is here.
The controversy is ruled by our judgment in Woolford
Realty Co. v. Rose, ante, p 319, unless the fact that in
this case one shareholder, Chapman, was the owner of substantially all the shares of the five affiliated companies
supplies an essential element of difference. We think it
does not. Chapman was free, if he desired, to continue to
do business in an unincorporated form. Preferring the

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.

334

Syllabus.

286 U.S.

privileges of corporate organization, he brought into being three corporations and did business through them.
These corporations are not identical with the unincorporated associations to whose principal assets they have succeeded, and the losses of the associations suffered in an
earlier year are not the losses of the corporations that
came into existence afterwards.
The judgment is
Affirmed.
MICHIGAN v. MICHIGAN TRUST CO., RECEIVER.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE

SIXTH CIRCUIT.
No. 598.

Argued April 19, 1932.-Decided May 16, 1932.

1. The annual tax laid by ยง 4 of Act No. 233, Pub. Acts of Mich.,
1923, upon every local corporation "for the privilege of exercising
its franchise and of transacting its business within this State," has
been held by the state supreme court to be a tax on the privilege
to do business, not merely on the doing of it, and to be applicable
where the business is being conducted by a receiver, appointed for
the purpose of continuing it.. Held:
(1) The decision must be followed in a federal court receivership
as a binding construction of the local law. P. 342.
(2) A decision upholding the tax as applied to a receiver is
necessarily a construction of the statute, although the statute does
not mention receivers and its application to them was guided by
general principles as to the effect of a receivership. P. 343.
(3) The tax should be paid by the receiver as it accrues, as part
of the expense of administration; and where this was deferred until
the receivership developed from a merely protective into a winding
up process, the accumulated taxes must be paid in preference to the
claims of creditors. P. 344.
2. Receiverships for conservation should be watched with a jealous
eye, to avoid inequitable results. P. 345.
3. United States v. Whitridge, 231 U. S. 144, disti'nguished. P. 346.
52 F. (2d) 842, reversed.
District Court, affirmed.

