564

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Syllabus.

317 U. S.

WALLING,ADMINISTRATOR OF THE WAGE AND
HOUR DIVISION, U. S. DEPT. OF LABOR, v.
JACKSONVILLE PAPER CO.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIFTH CIRCUIT.

No. 336. Argued November 19, 20, 1942.-Decided January 18, 1943.
1. The Fair Labor 'Standards Act is applicable 'to employees of a
wholesale paper company who are engaged in the delivery, from
company warehouses within a State to customers within the same
State, after a temporary pause at such warehouses, of goods procured outside of the State upon prior orders from, or pursuant to
contracts or understandings with, such customers. P. 567.
2. Such goods retain their, character as goods in interstate commerce until findly delivered to the customer; and they are not
divested of that character by ,the temporary pause at the warehouse, or by the fact that the company regards them as stock in
trade, or by the circumstance that title to them passes to.the company upon their delivery at its warehouse. P. 569.
3. As to the company's business in other goods procured from outside of the State and delivered from the warehouses to customers
within the Stabe-it being claimed that such business is "incommerce" within the meaning of the Act because the customers form
a fairly stable group whose needs can be anticipated with considerable precision-the evidence lacks that particularity necessary
to show that the status of the goods in question was different from
that of goods acquired and held by a local merchant for local disposition. P. 569.
4. That a wholesaler whose business is intrastate is in competition
with wholesalers doing interstate business is of no significance in
determining the applicability of the Fair Labor Standards Act, since
that Act does not extend to activities "affecting" commerce, but
only to such as are "in" commerce. P. 570.
5. That the Fair Labor Standards Act is applicable to a wholesaler
who makes purchases of goods outside of the State, though selling
intrastate exclusively, is not to be implied from the exception from
the Act, by §§ 13 (a)(1) and 13 (a) (2), of employees of retai:ers.
P. 574,

WALLING v. JACKSONVILLE PAPER CO.
564

565

Opinion of the Court.

6. The applicability of the Fair Labor Standards Act does not depend
on whether a wholesaler's business is wholly interstate, but rather
on the character of the employee's activities. P. 571.
128 F. 2d 395, affirmed.

CERTIORAI, post, p. 615, to review the reversal of a judgment in a suit brought by the Wage and Hour Administrator fo enjoin violations of the Fair Labor Standards
Act.
Mr. Robert L. Stern, with whom Solicitor GeneralFahy
and Messrs. Irving J. Levy, Mortimer B. Wolf, and Peter
Seitz were on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Louis Kurz for respondent.
Mr. CharlesB. Rugg filed a brief on behalf of the American Retail Federation, as amicus curiae, urging reversal
in part.

MR. JUSTIcE DOUGLAs delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This is a suit brought by the Administrator to enjoin
respondent from violating provisions of the Fair Labor
Standards Act. 52 Stat. 1060, 29 U. S. C. § 201. Respondent is engaged in the wholesale business, distributing
paper products and related articles. Its business covers
a large area embraced within a number of states in the
southeastern part Of the country. The major portion of
the products which it distributes comes from a large number of manufacturers and other suppliers located in other
states and in foreign countries. Five of respondent's
-twelve branch houses deliver goods to customers in other
states and it is not contended that the Act does not apply
to delivery employees at those establishments. The sole
issue here is whether the Act applies to employees at the
seven other branch houses which, though. constantly receiving -merchandise on interstate shipments and dis-

566

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
OpinioA of the Court.

317 U.S.

tributing it to their customers, do not ship or deliver any
of it across state lines.
Some of this merchandise is shipped direct from the
mills to respondent's customers. Some of it is purchased
on special orders from customers, consigned to the
branches, taken from the steamship or railroad terminal
to the branches for checking, and then taken to the customer's place of business. The bulk of the merchandise,
however, passes through the branch warehouses before
delivery to customers. There is evidence that the customers constitute a fairly stable group and that their
orders ate recurrent as to the kind and amount of merchandise. Some of the items carried in stock are ordered
only in anticipation of the needs of a particular customer
.as determined by a contract or understanding with respondent. Frequently orders for stock items .whose supply is exhausted are received. Responden t orders the
merchandise and delivers it to the customer as soon as
possible. Apparently many of these orders are treated
as deliveries from stock in trade. Not all -items listed in
respondent's catalogue are carried in stock but are stocked
at the mill. Orders for these are filled by respondent from
the manufacturer or supplier. There is also some evidence to the general effect that the branch manager before
placing -his orders for stock. items has a fair idea when and
to whom the merchandise will be sold and is able to estimate with considerable precision the immediate needs of
his customers even where they-do not have contracts calling for future deliveries.
The District -Court held that none of respondent's em*ployees in -the seven branch houses in question were subject to the Act. The Circuit Court of Appeals reversed.
128 F. 2d 395. (1) It held that employees' who are engaged in the procurement or receipt of.goods from' other
states are "engaged in commerce, within-the meaning of
9 6 (a) and § 7 (a) of the Act. (2) It also held that where

WALLING v. JACKSONVILLE PAPER CO.
564

567

Opinion of the Court.

respondent "takes an order" from a customer and fills it
outside the state and the goods are shipped interstate
"with the definite intention that those goods be .Iarried at
once to that customer and they are so carried, the whole
movement is interstate" and the entire work of d~livery to
their final destination is an employment "in corfimerce."
Those were the only types of transactions which. ie court
held to be covered by the Act.
The Administrator contends, in the first l]a ve that
under the decision below any pause at the wafeu6use is
sufficient to deprive the remainder of the journey of its
interstate status. In that connection it is pointed out
that prior to this litigation respondent's trucks would pick
up at the terminals of the interstate carriers goods destined
to specific customers, return to the warehouse for checking
and proceed immediately to the customer's place of business without unloading. That practice was changed.
The goods were unloaded from the trucks, brought into
the warehouse, checked, reloaded, and sent on to the customer during the same day or as early'as convenient.
The opinion of the Circuit Court of Appeals is susceptible
of the interpretation that such a pause at the warehouses
is sufficient to make the Act inapplicable to the subsequent
movement of the goods to their intended destination. We
believe, however, that the adoption of that view would result in too narrow a construction of the Act. It is clear
that the purpose of the Act was to extend federal control
in this field throughout the farthest reaches of the channels of interstate commerce.1 There is no indication
See for example the statement by Senator Borah speaking for the
Senate conferees on the Conference Report, ". . . if the business is
such as to occupy the channels of interstate commerce, any of the
employees who are a necessary part of carrying on that business are
within the terms of this bill, and, in my opinion, are under the Constitution of the United States." 83 Cong. Rec., 75th Cong., 3d Sess.,
Pt. 8, p. 9170.

568

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

317 U. S.

(apart from the exemptions contained in § 13) that, once
the goods entered the channels of interstate commerce,
Congress stopped short of control over the entire movement of them, until their interstate journey was ended.
No ritual of placing goods in a warehouse can be allowed
to defeat that purpose. The entry of the goods into the
warehouse interrupts but does not necessarily terminate
their interstate journey. A temporary pause in their
transit does not mean that they are no longer "in commerce" within the meaning of the Act. As in the case of
an agency (cf. De Loach v. Crowley's-Inc., 128 F. 2d 378)
if the halt in the movement of the goods is a convenient
intermediate step in the process of getting them to their
final destinations, they remain "in commerce" until they
reach those points. Then there is a practical continuity
of movement of the goods until they reach the customers
for whom they are intended. That is.'sufficient. Any
other test would allow formalities to conceal the continuous nature of the interstate transit which constitutes
commerce.
Secondly, the Administrator contends' that the decision
below excludes from the category of goods "in commerce"
certain types of transactions which are substantially of
the same character as the prior orders which were included. Thus it is shown that there is a variety of items
printed at the mill with the name of the customer. It
is also established that there are deliveries of certain goods
which are obtained from the manufacturer or supplier to
meet the needs of specified customers. Among the latter
are certain types of newsprint, paper, ice cream cups, and
cottage cheese containers. The record reveals, however,
that the goods in both of these two categories are ordered
pursuant to a prexisting contract or understanding with
the customer. It is not clear whether the decision of the
Circuit Court of Appeals includes these two types of
transactions in the group of prior orders which it held

WALLING v. JACKSONVILLE PAPER CO.
564

569

Opinion of the Court.

were covered by the Act. We think they must be included. Certainly they cannot be distinguished from the
special orders which respondent receives from its customers. Here also, a break in their physical continuity
of transit is not controlling. If there is a practical continuity of movement- from the manufacturers or suppliers
without the state, through respondent's warehouse and
on to customers whose prior orders or contracts are being
filled, the interstate journey is not ended by reason of a
temporary holding of the goods at the warehouse. The
fact that respondent may treat the goods as stock in trade
or the circumstance that title to the goods passes to respondent on the intermediate delivery does not mean that
the interstate journey ends at the warehouse. The contract or understanding pursuant to which goods are ordered, like a special order, indicates where it was intended
that the interstate movement should terminate. Numerous authorities are pressed on us for the contrary view
and for the conclusion that when the goods enter the
warehouse, they are no longer "in commerce." But as
we stated in Kirschbaum Co. v. Walling, 316 U. S. 517,
520-521, decisions dealing with various assertions of state
or federal power in the commerce field are not. particularly helpful in determining the reach of this Act.
Finally, the Administrator contends that most of the
customers form a fairly stable group, that their orders
are recurrent as to the kind and amount of merchandise,
and that the manager can estimate with considerable precision the needs of his trade. It is therefore urged that
the business with these customers is "incommerce" within
the meaning of the Act. Some of the instances to which %
we are referred are situations which we have discussed
in connection with goods delivered pursuant to a prior
order, contract, or understanding. For the reasons stated
they must be included in the group of transactions held
to be "in commerce." As to the balance, we do not think

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

317 U. S.

the Administrator has sustained the burden which is on
a petitioner of establishing error in a judgment which we
*are asked to set aside. We do not mean to imply that a
wholesaler's course of business based on anticipation of
needs of specific customers, rather than on prior orders
or contracts, might not at times be sufficient to establish
that practical continuity in transit necessary to keep a
movement of goods "in commerce" within the meaning
of the Act. It was said in Swift & Co. v. United States,
196 U. S. 375, 398, that "commerce among the States is
not a technical legal conception, but a practical one,
drawn from the course of business." While that observation was made apropos of the constitutional scope of
the commerce power, it is equally apt as a starting point
for inquiry whether a particular business is "in commerce" within the meaning of this Act. We do not believe, however, that on this phase of the case such a
course of busiliess is revealed by this record. The evi"dence said to support it is of a wholly general character
and lacks that particularity necessary to show that the
goods in question were different from goods acquired and
held by a local merchant for local disposition.
In this connection we cannot be unmindful that Congress in enacting this statute plainly indicated its purpose
to leave local business to the protection of the states.
S. Rep. No. 884, 75th Cong., 1st Sess., p. 5; 83 Cong. Rec.,
75th Cong., 3d Sess., Pt. 8, p. 9169. Moreover as we stated
in Kirschbaum Co. v. Walling, supra,p. 522-523, Congress
did not exercise in this Act the full scope of the commerce
power. We may assume the validity of the argument
that since wholesalers doing a' 16cal business are in competition with wholesalers doing an interstate business, the
latter would be prejudiced if their competitors were not
required to comply with the same labor standards. That
consideration, however, woqld be pertinent only if the
Act extended to businesses or transactions "affecting corn-

WALLING v. JACKSONVILLE PAPER CO.
564

57,

Opinion of the Court.

merce." But as we noted in the Kirschbaum case the Act
did not go so far. It is urged, however, that a different
result obtains in case of wholesalers. The argument is
,based on the fact that the Act excepts from § 6 and § 7
"any employee employed in a .
local retailing capacity" (§ 13 (a) (1)) and "any employee engaged in any
retail or service establishment the greater part of whose.
selling or servicing is in intrastate commerce." § 13 (a)
.(2). Since retailers are excluded by reason of these express
provisions, it is thought thatthe inclusion of wholesalers
should be implied. There is, however,*so indication in the
legislative history that but for the exemption of retailers
it was thought that all movement of goods from manufacturers to wholesalers and on to retailers would be "i,,n
commerce" within the meaning of the Act, where the
wholesalers and retailers were in the same state. It is
quite clear that the exemption in § 13 (a) (2) was added
to eliminate those retailers located near the state lines
and making some interstate sales. 83 Cong. Rec., 75th
Cong., 3d Sess., Pt. 7, pp. 7281-7282, 7436-7438.2 And
the exemption for retailers contained in § 13 (a) (1) was
to allay the fears of those who felt that a retailer purchasing goods from without the state-might otherwise be
included. Id. Hence we cannot conclude that all phases
of a wholesale business selling intrastate are covered by
the Act .solely because it makes its purchases interstate.
The use of the words "in commerce" entails an analysis of
the various types of transactions and the particular course
of business along the lines we have indicated.
The fact that all of respondent's business is not shown
to have an interstate character is not important. The
applicability of the Act is dependent on the character of
the employees' work. Kirschbaum Co. v. Walling, supra,
2And

see Joint Hearings, Senate Committee on Education and
Labor, House Committee on Labor, 75th Cong., 1st Sess., on S. 2475
and H. R. 7200, Pt. 1, p. 35.

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Syllabus.

317 U. S.

p. 524. If a substantial part of an employee's activities
related to goods whose movement in the channels of interstate commerce was established by the test we have described, he is covered by the Act. Here as in other situations (Kirschbaum Co. v. Walling, supra, p. 523) the
question of the Act's coverage depends on the special facts
pertaining to the particular business. The Circuit Court
of Appeals remanded the cause to the District Court so
that new findings could be made and an appropriate decree be framed. Whether additional evidence must be
taken on any phase of the case so that a decree may be
drawn is a question for the District Court. We merely
hold that the decision of the Circuit.Court of Appeals as
construed and modified by this opinion states the correct
view of the law. As so modified, the judgment below is
Affirmed.
HIGGINS v. CARR BROTHERS CO.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUIPREME JUDICIAL COURT OF MAINE.

No. 97.' Argued November 19, 1942.-Decided January 18, 1943.
1. The record in this case does not warrant setting aside the conclusion of the court below that, when merchandise coming from other
States was unloaded at the place of business of the wholesaler here
(selling intrastate exclusively), its interstate movement had ended,
and that an employee whose activities related to the goods thereafter was not covered by the Fair Labor Standards Act. Walling v..
Jacksonville Paper Co., ante, p. 564, distinguished. P. 574.
2. That a wholesaler whose business is exclusively intrastate is in competition with wholesalers doing interstate business is of no significance in determining the applicability of the.Fair Labor Standards
Act, since that Act does not extend to activities "affecting" commerce, but only to such as are "in" commerce. P. 574.
25 A. 2d 214, affirmed.

