OCTOBER TERM, 1942.

238

Opinion of the Court.

317 U. S.

SHARPE v. BUCHANAN, WARDEN.
ON PETITION FOR WRIT OF CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT
COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SIXTH CIRCUIT.

No. 525. Decided December 14, 1942.
Where a judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals affirming the District Court's refusal of habeas corpus was upon the sole ground
that the applicant, who was confined in a state penitentiary, had not
applied for habeas corpus to the state courts, this Court vacated the
judgment because, after the filing of the petition for certiorari here,
habeas corpus had been expressly refused by the State's highest
court. P. 238.
121 F. 2d 448, vacated.
PETITION

for writ of certiorari to review the affirmance

of a judgment denying habeas corpus, 36 F. Supp. 386.
Howard M. Sharpe, pro se.
PER CURIAM.
The motion for leave to proceed in forma pauperis is
gran ted and the petition for certiorari is also granted. It
appears from the record that, after hearing, the District
Court denied an application for habeas corpus filed by
petitioner, who is confined in a state penitentiary pursuant
to a judgment of conviction of a state court. The Circuit
Court of Appeals affirmed the District Court's order, 121
F. 2d 448, on the sole ground that petitioner had not
exhausted his state remedies by applying to the state
courts for habeas corpus, although an application for a
writ of error coram nobis had previously been denied by
the Kentucky Court of Appeals. Sharpe v. Commonwealth, 284 Ky. 88, 143 S. W. 2d 857. The Circuit Court
of Appeals denied a petition for rehearing, when it
appeared that an application for habeas corpus, filed
in a state court after the Circuit Court of Appeals had rendered its judgment, was still pending on appeal in the

GARRETT v. MOORE-McCORMACK CO.
238

239

Syllabus.

Kentucky Court of Appeals. After the petition for certiorari was filed here, the Kentucky Court of Appeals
affirmed the state court's order denying habeas corpus.
Sharpe v. Commonwealth, 292 Ky. 86, 165 S. W. 2d 993.
It thus appears that this obstacle to a consideration of the
merits of petitioner's application, which the Circuit Court
of Appeals encountered, has now been removed. The
judgment is therefore vacated, without costs, and the
cause remanded to the Circuit Court of Appeals for such
further proceedings as it may deem appropriate.
So ordered.

GARRETT v. MOORE-McCORMACK CO., INC. ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF PENNSYLVANIA.

No. 67. Argued November 12, 1942.-Decided December 14, 1942.
1.In a suit by a seaman in a*state court for damages under ยง 33 of
the Merchant Marine Act and for maintenance and cure, the rights
of the parties are measured by the federal statute and admiralty
principles. P. 243.
2. The question whether a state court, in an action for damages under
ยง 33 of the Merchant Marine Act and for maintenance and cure, protected all the substantial rights of the parties under controlling federal law is a federal question reviewable under ยง 237 (b) of the
Judicial Code. P. 245.
3. A shipowner, who, in defense of an action by a seaman for personal
injuries, sets up the seaman's release, is under the burden of proving that it was executed freely, without deception or coercion, and
that it was made by the seaman with full understanding of his rights.
The adequacy of the consideration and the nature of the medical
and legal advice available to the seaman at the time of signing the
release are relevant to an appraisal of this understandirg. P. 246.
4. This general admiralty rule applies not, only to actions for maintenance and cure but also to actions for damages under ยง 33 of the
Merchant Marine Act. P. 248.
5. Section 33,of the Merchant Marine Act is to be liberally construed
for the seaman's protection; it is an integral part of the maritime
law, and rights fashioned by it are to be implemented by admiralty
rules not inconsistent with the Act. P. 248.

