WICKARD v. FILBURN.
102

Syllabus.

Committee struck them all out, substituting only a provision dealing with a credit for contractual prohibitions
against the payment of dividends. ° An amendment
offered from the Senate floor, giving a broad credit for all
portions of adjusted net income used to purchase or replace
machinery, equipment, etc., or "expended or applied during the taxable year for the liquidation, payment, or
reduction of the principal of any bona-fide indebtedness
outstanding at the date of enactment of this Act," was
rejected." The much narrower amendment which
became § 26 (c) (2) was then offered, with little explanation other than that it was intended to supplement the
credit for contractual prohibition against dividend pay-

ments, the provision which became § 26 (c)

(1).12

We conclude that the judgments below were erroneous.
Accordingly they are reversed, and the causes remanded
with -directions to uphold the determination of the
Commissioner.
Reversed.
WICKARD, SECRETARY, OF AGRICULTURE,
ET AL. v. FILBURN.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF OHIO.

No. 59. Argued May 4, 1942. Reargued October 13, 1942.-Decided
November 9, 1942.
1. Pending a referendum vote of farmers upon Wheat quotas proclaimed by the Secretary of Agriculture under the Agricultural Adjustment Act of 1938, the Secretary made a radio address in which
he advocated approval of the quotas and called attention to the
recent enactment by Congress of the amendatory act, later approved
10 This legislative history is discussed in Helvering v. Northwest

Steel Mills, 311 U. S.46, 50.
1180 Cong. Rec. 9055, 9070, 74th Cong., 2d Sess.
12 80 Cong, ]ee. 9071, 74th Cong., 2d Sess.

112

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Syllabus.

317 U. S.

May 26, 1941. The speech mentioned the provisions of the amendment for increase of loans on wheat but not the fact that it also
increased the penalty on excess production, and added that because
of the uncertain world situation extra. acreages of wheat had been
deliberately planted and "farmers should not be penalized because
they have provided insurance against shortages of food." There
was no evidence that the subsequent referendum vote approving the
quotas was influenced by the speech. Held, that, in any, event and
even assuming that the penalties referred to in the speech were those
prescribed by the Act, the validity of the vote was not thereby affected. P. 117.
2. The wheat marketing quota and attendant penalty provisions of
the Agricultural Adjustment Act of 1938, as amended by the Act of
May 26, 1941, when applied to wheat not intended in any part
for commnerce but wholly for consumption on the farm are within
the commerce power of Congress. P. 118.
3. The effect of the Act is to restrict the amount of wheat which
may be produced for market and the extent as well to which one
may forestall resort to the market by producing for his own needs.
P. 127.
4. That the production of wheat for consumption on the farm may be
trivial in the particular case is not enough to remove the grower
from the scope of federal regulation, where his contribution, taken
with that of many others similarly situated, is far from trivial.
P. 127.
5. The power to regulate interstate commerce includes the power to
regulate the prices at which commodities in that commerce are
dealt in and practices affecting such 'Prices. P. 128.
6. A factor of such volume and variability as wheat grown for home
consumption would.have a substantial influence on price conditions
on the wheat market, both because such wheat, with rising prices,
may flow .into the market and check price increases and, because,
though never marketed, it supplies the need' of the grower which
would otherwise be satisfied by his purchases in the open market.
P. 128.
7. The amendatory Act of May 26, 1941, which increased the penalty
upon "farm marketing excess" and included irithat category wheat
which previously had not been subject to penalty, held not invalid
as retroactive legislation repugnant to the Fifth Amendment when
applied to wheat planted and growing. before it was enacted but
harvested and threshed thereafter. P. 131.
43 F. Supp. 1017, reversed.

WICKARD v. FILBURN.
111

Opinion of the Court.

APPEAL from a decree of the District Court of three
judges which permanently enjoined the Secretary of Agriculture and other appellants from enforcing certain penalties against the appellee, a farmer, under the Agricultural Adjustment Act.

Solicitor General Fahy, with whom Assistant Attorney
General Arnold and Messrs. Robert L. Stern, John S. L.
Yost, W. CarrollHunter, and Robert H. Shields were on

the briefs, on the original argument and on the reargument
(Mr. James C. Wilson was also on the brief on the original
argument), for appellants.
Messrs. Webb R. Clark and Harry N. Routzohn, with

whom Mr. Robert S. Nevin was on the briefs, for appellee.
Messrs. William Lemke, Louis M. Day, and T. A. Bill-

ingsly filed a brief, as amici curiae, in support of appellee.
MR.

JUSTICE JACKSON

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The appellee filed his complaint against the Secretary
of Agriculture of the United States, three members of the
County Agricultural Conservation Committee for Montgomery County, Ohio, and a member of the State Agricultural Conservation Committee for Ohio. He sought
to enjoin enforcement against himself of the marketing
penalty imposed by the amendment of May 26, 1941,1 to
the Agricultural Adjustment Act of 1938,2 upon that part

of his 1941 wheat crop which was available for marketing
in excess of the marketing quota established for his farm.
He also sought a declaratory judgment that the wheat
marketing quota provisions of the Act as amended and
applicable to him were unconstitutional because not sus1 55
252

Stat. 203, 7 U. S. C. (Supp. No. I) § 1340.
Stat. 31, as amended, 7 U. S. C. § 1281 et seq.
503873--43-15

114

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

317 U. S.

tainable under the Commerce Clause or consistent with
the Due Process Clause of the Fifth Amendment.
The Secretary moved to dismiss the action against him
for improper venue, but later waived his objection and
filed an answer. The other appellants moved to dismiss
on the ground that they had no power or authority to enforce the wheat' marketing quota provisions of the Act,
and after their motion was denied they answered, reserving exceptions to the ruling on their motion to dismiss.' The case was submitted for decision on the
pleadings and upon a stipulation of facts.
The appellee for many years past has owned and
operated a small farm in Montgomery County, Ohio,
maintaining a herd of dairy cattle, selling milk, raising
poultry, and selling poultry and eggs. It has been his
practice to raise a small acreage of winter wheat, sown in
the Fall and harvested in the following July; to sell a
portion of the crop; to feed part to poultry and livestock
on the farm, some of which is sold; to use some in making
flour for home consumption; and to keep the rest for the
following seeding. The intended disposition of the crop
here involved has not been expressly stated.
In July. of 1940, pursuant to the Agricultural Adjustment Act of 1938, as then amended, there were established
for the appellee's 1941 crop a wheat acreage allotment of
11.1 acres and a normal yield of 20.1 bushels of wheat an.
acre. He was given notice of such allotment in July of
'1940, before the Fall planting of his 1941 crop of wheat,
and again in July of 1941, before it was harvested. He
sowed, however, 23 acres, and harvested from his 11.9
acres of excess acreage 239 bushels, which under the terms
of the Act as amended on May 26, 1941, constituted farm
"Because of the conclusion reached as to the merits, we need not
consider the question whether these appellants would be proper
if ouw decision -were otherwise.

WICKARD v. FILBURN.
111

Opinion of the Court.

marketing excess, subject to a penalty of 49 cents a bushel,
or $117.11 in all. The appellee has not paid the penalty
and he has not postponed or avoided it by storing the excess
under regulations of the Secretary of Agriculture, or by
delivering it up to the Secretary. The Committee, therefore, refused him a marketing card, which was, under the
terms of Regulations promulgated by the Secretary,
necessary to protect a buyer from liability to the penalty
4
and upon its protecting lien.
The general scheme of the Agricultural Adjustment Act
of 1938 as related to wheat is to control the volume moving in interstate and foreign commerce in order to avoid
surpluses and shortages and the consequent abnormally
-low or high wheat prices and obstructions to commerce.'
Within prescribed limits and by prescribed standards the
Secretary of Agriculture is directed to ascertain and proclaim each year a national acreage allotment for the next
crop of wheat, which is then apportioned to the states and
their counties, and is eventually broken up into allotments for individual farms.' Loans and payments to
wheat farmers are authorized in stated circumstances.
The Act further provides that whenever it appears that
the total supply of wheat as of the beginning of any marketing year, beginning July 1, will exceed a normal year's
domestic consumption and export by more than 35 per
cent, the Secretary shall so proclaim not later than May 15
prior to the beginning of such marketing year; and that
during the marketing year a compulsory national marketing quota shall be in effect with respect to the marketing
4Wheat-507,

§§ 728.240, 728.248, 6 Federal Register 2695, 2699-

2701.
8 §'331, 7 U. S. C. § 1331.
S§ 335, 7 U. S. C. § 1335.
7§§302. (b) (h), 303, 7 U. S. C. §§ 1302 (b) (h), 1303; § 10 of the
amendment of May 26, 1941, 7 U. S. C. (Supp. I), § 1340 (10).

116

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

317 U. S.

of wheat.8 Between the issuance of the proclamation and
June 10, the Secretary must, however, conduct a referendum of farmerswho will be subject to the quota, to determine whether they favor or oppose it; and, if more than
one-third of the farmers voting in the referendum do oppose, the Secretary must, prior to the effective date of the
quota, by proclamation suspend its operation.9
On May 1.9, 1941, the Secretary of Agriculture made a
radio address to the wheat farmers of the United States
in which he advocated approval of the quotas and called
attention to the pendency of the amendment of May 26,
1941, which had at the time been sent by Congress to, the
White House, and pointed out its provision for an increase
in the loans on wheat to 85 per cent-of parity. He made
no mention of the fact that it also increased the penalty
from 15 cents a bushel to one-half of the parity loan rate
of about 98 cents, but stated that "Because of the uncertain wor4d situation, we deliberately planted several
million extra acres of wheat. . .

Farmers should not

be penalized because they have provided insurance against
shortages of food."
Pursuant to the Act, the referendum of wheat growers
was held on May 31, 1941. According to the required
published statement of the Secretary of Agriculture, 81
per cent of those voting favored the marketing quota,
with 19 per cent opposed.
The court below held, with one judge dissenting, that the
speech of the Secretary invalidated the referendum; and
that the amendment of May 26, 1941, "in so far as it increased the penalty for the farm marketing excess over
the fifteen cents per bushel prevailing at the time of planting and subjected the entire crop to a lien for the payment
thereof," should not be applied to the appellee because
8 § 335 (a), 7 U. S. C. § 1335 (a).

336, 7 U.S. Q.§ 1 06,

WICKARD v. FILBURN.
111

Opinion of the Court.

as so applied it was retroactive and in violation of the Fifth
Amendment; and, alternatively, because the equities of
the case so required. 43 F. Supp. 1017. Its judgment
permanently enjoined appellants from collecting a marketing penalty of more than 15 cents a bushel on the farm
marketing excess of appellee's 1941 wheat crop, from subjecting appellee's entire 1941 crop to a lien for the payment
of the penalty, and from collecting a 15-cent penalty
except in accordance with the provisions of § 339 of the
Act as that section stood prior to the amendment of May
26, 1941.1" The Secretary and his co-defendants have
appealed.1
I
The holding of the court below that the Secretary's
speech invalidated the referendum is manifest error.
Read as a whole and in the context of world events that
constituted his principal theme, the penalties of which
he spoke were more likely those in the form of ruinously
low prices resulting from the excess supply rather than the
penalties prescribed in the Act. But under any interpretation the speech cannot be given the effect of invalidating
the referendum. There is no evidence that any voter
put upon the Secretary's words the interpretation that
impressed the court below or was in any way misled.
There is no showing that the speech influenced the outcome of the referendum. The record in fact does not
show. that any, and does not Suggest a basis for even a
guess as to how many, of the voting farmers dropped work
to listen to "Wheat Farmers and the Battle for
107 U. S. C. § 1339.

This imposed a penalty of 150 per bushel upon

wheat marketed in excess of the farm marketing quota while such
quota was in effect. See also, amendments of July 26, 1939, 53 Stat.
1126,'7 U. S. C. § 1335 (c) and of July 2, 1940, 54 Stat. 727, 7 U. S. C.

§ 1301 (b) (6) (A), (B).
1150 Stat. 752-753, § 3, 28 U. S. C. § 380a.

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

317 U. S.

Democracy" at 11:30 in the morning of May 19th, which
was a busy hour in one of the busiest of seasons. If this
discourse intended reference to this legislation at all, it
was of course a public Act, whose terms were readily available, and the speech did not purport to be an exposition
of its provisions.
To hold that a speech by a Cabinet officer, which
failed
to meet judicial ideals of clarity, precision, and exhaustiveness, may defeat a policy embodied in an Act of Congress,
would invest communication between administrators and
the people with perils heretofore unsuspected. Moreover,
we should have to conclude that such an officer is able to
do by accident what he has no power to do by design.
Appellee's complaint, in so far as it is based on this speech,
is frivolous, and the injunction, in so far as it rests on this
ground, is unwarranted. United States v. Rock Royal
Co-operative,307 U. S. 533.
II
It is urged that under the Commerce Clause of the Constitution, Article I, § 8, clause 3, Congress does not possess
the power it has in this instance sought to exercise. The
question would merit little consideration since our decision
in United States v. Darby, 312 U. S. 100,12 sustaining the
federal power to regulate production of goods for commerce, except for the fact that this Act extends federal
regulation to production not intended in any part for commerce but wholly for consumption on the farm. The Act
includes a definition of "market" and its derivatives, so
that as related to wheat, in addition to its conventional
meaning, it also means to dispose 9 f "by feeding (in any
12 See also,.Gray v. Powell, 314 U. S. 402; United States v. Wrightwood Dairy Co., 315 U. S. 110; Cloverleaf Co. v. Patterson, 315 U. S.
148; Kirschbaum Co. v. Walling, 316 U. S. 517; Overnight Transportation Co. v. Missel, 316 U. S. 572.

WICKARD v. FILBURN.
111

Opinion of the Court.

form) to- poultry or livestock which, or the products of
which, are sold, bartered, or exchanged, or to be so disposed
of." la Hence, marketing quotas not only embrace all that
may be sold without, penalty but also what may be consumed on the premises. Wheat produced on excess acreage
is designated as "available for marketing" as so defined,
and the penalty is imposed thereon.' Penalties do not depend upon whether any part of the wheat, either within or
without the quota, is sold or intended to be sold. The sum
of this is that the Federal Government fixes a quota including all that the farmer may harvest for sale or for his own
farm needs, and declares that. wheat produced on excess
acreage, may neither be disposed o f nor used except upon
payment of the penalty, or except it is stored as required
by the Act or delivered to the Secretary of Agriculture.
Appellee says that this is a regulation of production
and consumption of wheat. Such activities are, he urges,
beyond the reach of Congressional power under the, Commerce Clause, since they are local in character, and their
effects upon interstate commerce are at most "indirect."
In answer the Governmen, argues that the statute regulates neither production nor consumption, but only marketing; and, in the alternative, that if the Act does go
beyond the regulation of marketing it is sustainable as a
"necessary and proper" 11 implementation of the power of
Congress over interstate commerce.
The Government's concern lest the Act be held to be a
regulation of production or consumption, rather than of
marketing, is attributable, to a few dicta and decisions of
this Court which might be understood to lay it down that
activities such as "production," "manufacturing," and
1.54 Stat. 727,7 U. S. C. § 1301 (b) (6) (A), (B).
14 §§ 1, 2, of the amendment of May 26, 1941; Wheat-507, § 728.251,
6 Federal Register 2695, 2701.
15 Constitution, Article I, § 8, cl. 18.

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

317 U. S.

"mining" are strictly "local" and, except in special circumstances which are not present here, cannot be regulated
under the commerce power because their effects upon interstate commerce are, as matter of law, only "indirect." 14
Even today, when this power has been held to have great
latitude, there is no decision of this Court that such
activities may be regulated where no part of the product
is intended for interstate commerce or intermingled with
the subjects thereof. We believe that a review of the
course of decision under the Commerce Clause will make
plain, however, that questions of the power of Congress
are not to be decided by reference to any formula which
would give controlling force to nomenclature such as
"production" and "indirect" and foreclose consideration of
the actual effects of the activity in question upon interstate commerce.
At the beginning Chief Justice Marshall described the
federal commerce power with a breadth never yet exceeded.
Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheat. 1, 194-195. He made emphatic the embracing and penetrating nature of this power
by warning that effective restraints on its exercise must
proceed from political rather than from judicial processes.
Id. at 197.
10 After discussing and affirming the cases stating that such activ-

ities were "local," and could be regulated under the Commerce Clause
only if by virtue of special circumstances their effects upon interstate
commerce were "direct," the opinion of the Court in Carter v. Carter
Coal Co.,'298 U. S. 238, 308, stated that: "The distinction between a
direct and 4n indirect effect turns, not upon the magnitude oft either
the cause or the effect, but entirely upon the manner in which the
effect has been brought about. . . the matter of degree has no
bearing-upon the question here, since that question is not-What is the
extent o the local activity or condition, or the extent of the effect
produced upon interstate commerce? but-What is the relationbetween
the activity or condition and the effect?" See also, cases cited infra,
notes 17 and 21.

WICKARD v. FILBURN.
111

Opinion of the Court.

For nearly a century, however, decisions of this Court
under the Commerce-Clause dealt rarely with questions of
what Congress might do in the exercise of its granted
power under the Clause, and almost entirely with the.
permissibility of state activity which it was claimed discriminated against or burdened interstate commerce.
During this period there was perhaps little occasion for
the affirmative exercise of the commerce' power, and the
influence of the Clause on American life and law was a
negative one, resulting almost wholly from its operation
as a restraint upon the powers of the states. In discussion and decision the point of reference, -instead of being
what was "necessary and proper" to the exercise by
Congress of its granted power, was often some concept of
sovereignty thought to be implicit in the status of statehood. Certain activities such as "production," "manufacturing," and "mining" were occasionally said to be
within the.province of state governments and beyond the
power of Congress under the Commerce Clause. 7
It was not until 1887, with the enactment of the Interstate Commerce Act,18 that the interstate commerce power
began to exert positive influence in American law and
life. This first important federal resort to the commerce
power was followed in' 1890 by the Sherman Anti-Trust
Act 19 and, thereafter, mainly after 1903, by many others.
These statutes ushered in new phases of adjudication,
which required the Court. to approach the interpretation
of the Commerce Clause in the light of an actual exercise
by Congress of its power thereunder.
When it first dealt with this new legislation, the Court
adhered to its earlier pronouncements, and allowed but
17 Veazie v. Moor, 14 How. 568, 573-574; Kidd v. Pearson, 128 U. S.
1, 20-22.
18 24 Stat. 379, 49 U. S. C. § 1, et seq.
1926 Stat. 209, 15 U. S. C. § 1, et seq.

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the 'Court.

317 U. S.

little scope to the power of Congress. United States v.
Knight Co., 156 U. S. 1.2 ' These earlier pronouncements
also played an important part in several of the five cases
in which this Court later held that Acts of Congress under
the Commerce Clause were in excess of its power."'
Even while important opinions in this line of restrictive
authority were being written, however, other cases called
forth broader interpretations of the Commerce Clause
destined to supersede the earlier ones, and to bring about
a return to the principles'first enunciated by Chief Justice
Marshall in Gibbons v. Ogden, supra.
Not loing after the decision of United States v. Knight
Co., supra, Mr. Justice Holmes, in sustaining the exercise
of national power over intrastate activity, stated for the
Court that "commerce among the States is not - technical
legal conception, but a practical one, drawn from the
course of business." Swift & Co, v. United States, 196
U. S.375, 398. It was soon demonstrated that the effects
of many kinds of intrastate activity upon interstate commerce were such as to make them a proper subject of
federal regulation.2
In some cases sustaining the exercise
of federal power over intrastate matters the term "direct"
2 0 See also, Hopkins v. United States, 171 U. S. 578; Anderson v.
United States, 171 U. Si 604.
21 Employers' Liability Cases, 207 U. S. 463; Hammer v. Dagenhart,

247 U. S. 251; Railroad Retirement Board v. Alton R. Co., 295 U. S.
330; Schechter Corp. v. United States, 295 U. S. 495; Carterv. Carter
Coal Co., 298 U. S. 238; cf. United States v. Dewitt, 9 Wall. 41; TradeMark Cases, 100 U. S. 82; Hill v. Wallace, 259 U. S. 44; Heisler v.
Thomas Colliery Co., 260 U. S. 245, 259-260; Oliver Iron Co. v. Lord,
262 U. S.172, 178-179; Utah Power & Light Co. v. Pfost, 286 U. S. 165.
22Northern Securities Co. v. United States, 193 U: S. 197; Swift
& Co. v. United States, supra; Loewe V. Lawlor, 208 U. S. 274; Baltimore & Ohio R. Co. v. Interstate Commerce Commission, 221 U. S.
.612; Southern Ry. Co. v. United States, 222 U. S. 20; -Second Employers' Liability Cases, 223 U. S. 1; United States v. Patten, 226

U. S.525.

WICKARD v. FILBURN.
111

Opinion of the Court.

was used for the purpose of stating, rather than of reaching, a result; 28 in others it was treated as synonymous
with "substantial" or "material"; 24 and in others it-was
not used at all.25 Of late its use has been abandoned. in
cases dealing with questions of federal power under the
Commerce Clause.
In the Shreveport Rate Cases; 234 U. S. 342, the Court
held that railroad rates of an admittedly intrastate character and fixed by authority of the state might, nevertheless, be revised by the Federal Government because of the
economic effects which they had upon interstate commerce. The opinion of Mr. Justice Hughes found federal
intervention constitutionally authorized because of "matters having such a close and substantial relation to interstate traffic that the control is essential or appropriate to
the security of that traffic, to the efficiency of the interstate service, and to the maintenance of conditions under
which interstate commerce may be conducted upon fair
terms and without molestation or hindrance." ' Id. at
351.
The Court's recognition of the relevance of the economic
effects in the application of the Commerce Clause, ex23 United Leather Workers v. Herkert Co., 265 U. S. 457, 471; cf.
Apex Hosiery Co. v. Leader, 310 U. S. 469, 511; Di Santo v. Pennsylvania, 273 U. S. 34, 44 (dissent); Northern Securities Co. v. United
States, 193 U. S. 197, 395; StandardOil Co. v. United States, 221 U. S.
1, 66-69.
24 In Santa Cruz Co. v. Labor Board, 303 U. S. 453, 466-467, Chief
Justice Hughes said: "'direct' has been contrasted with 'indirect,' and
what is 'remote' or 'distant' with what is 'close and substantial.' Whatever terminology is used, the criterion is necessarily one of degree
and must be so defined. This does not satisfy those who seek for
mathematical or rigid formulas. But such formulas are not provided
by the great concepts of the Constitution such as 'interstate commerce,'
'due process,' 'equal protection.'
25 Baltimore & Ohio R. Co. v. Interstate Commerce Commission, 221
U. S. 612; Second Employers' Liability Cases, 223 U. S. 1; Interstate
Commerce Commission v. Goodrich Transit Co., 224 U. S. 194'

124

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

317 U. S.

emplified by this statement, has made the mechanical
application of legal formulas no longer feasible. Once an
economic measure of the reach of the power granted to
Congress in the Commerce Clause is accepted, questions
of federal power cannot be decided simply by finding the
activity in question to be "production," nor can consideration of its economic effects be foreclosed by calling them
"indirect." The present Chief Justice has said in summary of the present state of the law: "The commerce
power is not confined in its exercise to the regulation of
commerce among the states. It extends to those activities
-intrastate which so affect interstate commerce, or the exertion of the power of Congress over it, as to make regulation of them appropriate means to the attainment of a
legitimate end, the effective execution of the granted power
to regulate interstate commerce. . . . The p.wer of
Congress over interstate commerce is plenary and complete in itself, may be exercised to its utmost extent, and
acknowledges no limitations other than are prescribed in
the Constitution. .... It follows that no form of state
activity can constitutionally thwart the regulatory power
granted by the commerce clause to Congress. Hence the
reach of that power extends to those intrastate activities
which in a substantial way interfere with or obstruct the
exercise of the granted power." United States v. Wrightwood Dairy Co., 315 U. S. 110, 119.
Whether the subject of the regulation in question was
"prdduction," "consumption," or "marketing" is, therefore', not material for purposes of deciding the question of
federal power before us. That an activity is of local character may help in a doubtful case to determine whether
Congress intended to reach it."6 The same consideration
might help in determining whether in the absence of
Congressional action it would be permissible for the state
21Cf. Federal Trade Commission v. Bunte Bros., 312 U. S. 349.

WICKARD v. FILBURN.
111

125

Opinion of the Court.

to exert its power on the subject matter, even though in so
doing it to some degree affected interstate commerce.
But even if appellee's activity be local and though it may
not be regarded as commerce, it may still, whatever its
nature, be reached by Congress:if it exerts a substantial
economic effect on interstate commerce, and this irrespective of whether such effect is what might at some
earlier time have been defined as "direct" or "indirect."
The parties have stipulated a summary of the economics
of the wheat industry. Commerce among the states in
wheat is large and important. Although wheat is raised
in every state but one, production in most states is not
equal to consumption. Sixteen states on average have
had a surplus of wheat above their own requirements for
feed, seed, and food. Thirty-two states and the District
of Columbia, where production has been below consumption, have looked to these surplus-producing states for
their supply as well as for wheat for export and-carry-over.
The wheat industry has been a problem industry for
some years. Largely as a result of increased foreign production and import restrictions, annual exports of wheat
and flour from the United States during the ten-year
period ending in 1940 averaged less than 10 per cent of
total production, while during the 1920's they averaged
more than 25 per cent. The decline in the export trade
has left a large surplus in production which, in connection
with an abnormally large supply of wheat and other grains
in recent years, caused congestion in a number of markets;.
tied up railroad cars; and caused elevators in some instances to turn away grains, and railroads to institute
embargoes to prevent further congestion.
Many countries, both importing and exporting, have
sought to modify the impact of the world market conditions on their own economy. Importing countries have
taken measures to stimulate production and self-suffi3iency. The four large exporting countries of Argen-

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

317 U. S.

tina, Australia, Canada, and the United States have all
undertaken various programs for the relief of growers.
Such measures have been designed, in part at least, to protect the domestic price received by producers. Such plans
have generally evolved towards control by the central
government."
In the absence of regulation, the price of wheat in the
United States would be much affected by world conditions.
During 1941, producers who co6perated with the Agricultural Adjustment program received an average price on
the farm of about $1.16 a bushel, as compared with the
world market price of 40 cents a bushel.
Differences in farming conditions, however, make these
benefits mean different things to different wheat growers.
There are several large areas of specialization in wheat,
and the concentration on this crop reaches 27 per cent of
the crop land, and the average harvest runs as high as
27 It is interesting to note that all of these have federated systems of
government, not of course without important differences. In all of
them, wheat regulation is by the national government. In Argentina,
wheat may be purchased only from the national Grain Board. A
condition of sale to the Board, which buys at pegged prices, is the
producer's agreement to become subject to restrictions on planting.
See Nolan, Argentine Grain Price Guaranty, Foreign Agriculture (Office
of Foreign Agricultural Relations, Department of Agriculture) May,
1942, pp. 185, 202. The Australian system of regulation includes the
licensing of growers, who may not sow more than the amount licensed,
and who may be compelled to cut part of their crops for hay if a heavy
crop is in prospect. See Wright, Australian Wheat Stabilization,
Foreign Agriculture (Office of Foreign Agricultural Relations, Department of Agriculture) September, 1942, pp. 329, 336. The Canadian
Wheat Board has wide control over the marketing of wheat by the
individual producer. 4 Geo. VI, c. 25, § 5. Canadian wheat has also
been the subject of numerous Orders in Council. E. g., 6 Proclamations and Orders in Council (1942) 183, which gives the Wheat Board
full control of sale, delivery, milling and disposition by any person or
individual. See, also, Wheat Acreage Reduction Act, 1942, 6 Geo.
VI, c. 10.

WICKARD v. FILBURN.
111

127

.Opinion of the Court.

155 acres. Except for some use of wheat as stock feed
and for seed, the practice is to sell the crop for cash.
Wheat from such areas constitutes the bulk of the interstate commerce therein.
On the other hand, in some New England states less
than one per cent of the crop land is devoted to wheat, and
the average harvest is less than five acres per farm. In
1940 the average percentage of the total wheat production that was sold in each state, as measured by value,
ranged from 29 per cent thereof in Wisconsin to 90 per
cent in Washington. Except in regions of large-scale production, wheat is usually grown in rotation with other
crops; for a nurse crop for grass seeding; and as a cover
crop to prevent soil erosion and leaching. Some is sold,
some kept for seed, and a percentage of the total production much larger than in areas of specialization is
consumed on the farm and grown for such purpose. Such
farmers, while growing some wheat, may even find the
balance of their interest on the consumer's side.
The effect of consumption of home-grown wheat on
interstate commerce is due to the fact that it constitutes
the most variable factor in the disappearance of the wheat
crop. Consumption on the farm where grown appears to
vary in an amount greater than ?0 per cent of average
production. The total amount of wheat consumed as
food varies but relatively little, and use as seed is relatively
constant.
The inaintenance by government regulation of a price
for wheat undoubtedly can be accomplished as effectively
by sustaining or increasing 'the demand as by limiting the
supply. The effect of the statute before us is to restrict
the amount which may be produced for market and the
extent as well to which one may forestall resort to the
market by producing to meet his. own needs. That appellee's own contribution to the demand for wheat may be
trivial by itself is not enough to remove him from the

128

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

317 U. S.

scope of federal regulation where, as here, his contribution,
taken together with that of many others similarly situated, is far from trivial. Labor Board v. Fainblatt, 306
U. S. 601, 606 et seq.; United States v. Darby, supra,
at 123.
It is well established by decisions of this Court that the
power to regulate commerce includes the power to regulate
the prices at which commodities in that commerce are
dealt in and practices affecting such prices.2s One of the
primary purposes of the Act in question was to increase the
market price of wheat, and to that end to limit the volume
thereof that could affect the market. It can hardly be
denied that a factor of such volume and variability as
home-consumed wheat would have a substantial influence
on price and market conditions. This may arise because
being in marketable condition such wheat overhangs the
market and, if induced by rising prices, tends to flow
into the market and check price increases. But if we
assume that it is never marketed, it supplies a need
of the man who grew it which would otherwise be reflected by purchases in the open market. Home-grown
wheat in this sense competes with wheat in commerce.
The stimulation of commerce is a use of the regulatory
function quite as definitely as prohibitions or restrictions
thereon. This record leaves us in no doubt that Congress
Swift & Co. v. United States, 196 U. S. 375; Stafford v. Wallace,
258 U-S. 495; Chicago Board of Trade v. Olsen, 262 U. S. 1; Coronado
Coal Co. v. United Mine Workers, 268 U. S. 295; United States v.
Trenton PotteriesCo., 273 U. S. 392; Tagg Bros. & Moorheadv. United
States, 280 U. S. 420; Standard Oil Co. of Indiana v. United States,
283 U. S. 163; Currin v. Wallace, 306 U. S. 1; Mulford v. Smith, 307
U. S. 38; United State.s v. Rock Royal Co-operative, supra; United
States v. Socony-Vacuum Oil Co., 310 U. S. 150; Sunshine Anthracite
Coal Co. v. Adkins, 310 U. S. 381; United States v. Darby, supra;
United States v. Wrightwood Dairy Co., supra; Federal Power Commission v. Pipeline Co., 315 U. S. 575.
28

WICKARD v. FILBURN.
111

Opinion of the Court.

may properly have considered that wheat consumed on
the farm where grown, if wholly outside the scheme of
regulation, would have a substantial effect in defeating
and obstructing its purpose to stimulate trade therein at
increased prices.
It is said, however, that this Act, forcing some farmers
into the market to buy what they could provide for themselves, is an unfair promotion of the markets and prices
of specializing wheat growers. It is of the essence of
regulation that it lays a restraining hand on the selfinterest of the regulated and that advantages from the
regulation commonly fall to others. The conflicts of
economic interest between the regulated and those who
advantage by it are wisely left under our system to resolution by the Congress under its more flexible and responsible
legislative process. 9 Such conflicts rarely lend themselves
to judicial determination. And with the wisdom, workability, or fairness, of the plan of regulation we have
nothing to do.
III
The statute is also challenged as a deprivation of property without due process of law contrary to the Fifth
Amendment, both because of its regulatory effect on the
appellee and because of its alleged retroactive effect. The
court below sustained the plea on the ground of forbidden
retroactivity, "or in the alternative, that the equities of
the case as shown by the record favor the plaintiff." 43
F. Supp. 1017, 1019. An Act of Congress is not to be
refused application by the courts as arbitrary and capribious and forbidden by the Due Process Clause merely
Cf. M'Culloch v. Maryland, 4* Wheat. 316, 413-415, 435-436;
Gibbons v. Ogden, supra, at 197; Stafford v. Wallace, 268 U. S. 495,
521; Chicago Board of Trade v. Olsen, 262 U. S. 1, 37; Helvering v.
Gerhardt,304 U. S. 405, 412.
29

503873-43-16

130

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

317 U. S.

because it is deemed in a particular case to work an
inequitable result.
Appellee's claim that the Act works a deprivation of
due process even apart from its allegedly retroactive effect
is not persuasive. Control of total 'supply, upon which
the whole statutory plan is based; depends upon control
of individual supply. Appellee's claim is not that his
quota represented less than a fair share of the national
quota, but that the Fifth Amendment requires that he be
free from penalty for planting wheat and disposing of his
crop as he sees fit.
We do not agree. In its effort to control total supply,
the Government gave the farmer a choice which was, of
course, designed to encourage co6peration and discourage
non-cooperation. The farmer who planted within his
allotment was in effect guaranteed a minimum return
much above what his wheat would have brought if sold
on a world market basis. Exemption from the applicability of quotas was made in favor of small producers.""
The farmer who produced in excess of his quota might
escape penalty by delivering his wheat to the Secretary,
or by storing it with the privilege of sale without penalty
in a later year to fill out his quota, or irrespective of quotas
if they are no longer in effect, and he could obtain a loan
of 60 per cent of the rate for co~peratos, or about 59 cents
a bushel, on so much of his wheat as would be subject to
:penalty if marketed."' Finally, he might make other dispos':.tion of his wheat, subject to the penalty. It is agreed
30 Section 7 of the amendment of May 26, 1941 provided that a farm
marketing quota should not be aPllicable to any farm on which the
acreage planted to wheat is not in excess of fifteen acres. When the
appellee planted his wheat the quota was inapplicable to any farm on
which the normal production of the acreage planted to wheat was less
than 200 bushels. § 335 (d) of the Agricultural Adjustment Act of
1938, as amended by 54 Stat. 232.
.1 §§ 6, 10 (c) of the amendinent of May 26, 1941.

WICKARD v. FILBURN.
111

Opinion of the Court.

that as the result of the wheat programs he is able to market his wheat at a price "far above any world price based
on the natural reaction of supply and demand." We can
hardly find a denial of due process in these circumstances,
particularly since it is even doubtful that appellee's
burdens under the program outweigh his benefits. It is
hardly lack of due process for the Government to regulate
that which it subsidizes.
The amendment of May 26, 1941 is said to be invalidly
retroactive in two respects: first, in that it increased the
penalty from 15 cents to 49 cents a bushel; secondly, in
that, by the new definition of "farm marketing excess," it
subjected to the penalty wheat which had theretofore been
subject to no penalty at all, i. e., wheat not "marketed"
as defined in the Act.
It is not to be denied that between seed time and harvest
important changes were made in tlhe Act which affected
the desirability and advantage of planting the excess acreage. The law as it stood when the appellee planted his
crop made the quota for his farm the normal or the actual
production of the acreage allotment, whichever was
greater, plus any carry-over wheat that he could have
marketed without penalty in the preceding marketing
year.2 The Act also provided that -the farmer who, while
quotas were in effect, marketed wheat in excess of the
quota for the farm on which it was produced should be
subject to a penalty of 15 cents a bushel on the excess
so marketed." Marketing of wheat was defined as including disposition "by feeding (in any form) to poultry or
livestock which, or the products of which, are sold, bar." 8, The amendment.of May 26,
-tered, or exchanged,
32

§ 335 (c) as amended July 26, 1939, 53 Stat. 1126, 7 U. S. C.

§ 1335 (c).
"3 § 339, 7 U. S. C. § 1339.
3 § 301 (b) (6) (A), (B), as amended July 2, 1940, 54 Stat. 727, 7
U. S. C. § 1301 (b) (6) (A), (B).

132

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

317 U. S.

1941, made before the appellee had harvested the growing
crop, changed the quota and penalty provisions. The
quota for each farm became the actual production of
acreage planted to wheat, less the normal or the actual
production, whichever was smaller, of any excess acre3
ageY.
Wheat in excess of this quota, known as the "farmmarketing excess" and declared by the amendment to be
"regarded as available for marketing," was subjected to a
penalty fixed at 50 per cent of the basic loan rate for
cobperators, 0 or 49 cents, instead of the penalty of 15 cents
which obtained at the time of planting. At the same time,
there was authorized an increase in the amount of the loan
which might be made to .non-co6perators such as the
appellee upon wheat which "would be subject to penalty
if marketed" from about 34 cents per bushel to about 59
cents. 7 The entire crop was subjected by the amendment
to a lien for the payment of the penalty.
The penalty provided by the amendment can be postponed or avoided only by storing the farm marketing
excess according to regulations promulgated by the Secretary or by delivering it to him without compensation;
"" By an amendment of December 26, 1941, 55 Stat. 872, effective
as of May 26, 1941, it was provided that the farm marketing excess
should not be larger than the amount by which the actual production
exceeds the normal production of the farm wheat-acreage allotr-ent,
if the producer establishes such actual production to the satisfaction
of the Secretary, provision being made for adjustment of the penalty
in the event of a downward adjustment in the amount of the farm
marketing excess.
36 §§ 1, 2, 3 of the amendment of May 26, 1941.
37 Section 302 (b) had provided for a loan to non-co6perators of 60%
of the basic loan rate for co6perators, which in 1940 was 640. See
United States Department of Agriculture Press Release, May 20, 1940.
The same percentage was employed in § 10 (c) of the amendment of
May 26, 1941, and the increase in the amount of the loan is the result
of an increase in the basic loan rate effected by § 10 (a) of the
amendment.

WICKARD v. FILBURN.
111

Opinion of the Court.

and the penalty is incurred and becomes due on threshing.- Thus the penalty was contingent upon an act
which appellee committed not before but after the enactment of the statute, and had he chosen to cut his excess
and cure it or feed it as hay, or to reap and feed it with
the head and straw together, no penalty would have been
demanded. Such manner of consumption is not uncommon. Only when he threshed and thereby made it a part
of the bulk of wheat overhanging the market did he become subject to penalty. He has made no effort to show
that the' value of his excess wheat consumed without
threshing was less than it would have been had it been
threshed while subject to the:statutory provisions in force
at the time of planting. • Concurrently with the increase
in the amount of the penalty, Congress authorized a substantial increase in the amount of the loan which might
be made to co6perators upon stored farm marketing excess
wheat. That appellee is the worse off for the aggregate
of this legislation does not appear; it only appears that,
if he could get all that the Government gives and do
nothing that the Government asks, he would be better
off than this law allows. To deny him this is not to deny
him due process of law. Cf. Mulford v. Smith, 307
U. S. 38.
Reversed.

SWheat-507, § 728.251 (b), 6 Federal Register 2695, 2701.

