OCTOBER TERM, 194.
Opinion of the Court.

317 U. S.

The judgment below is reversed and the cause remanded for further proceedings not inconsistent with this
opinion.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER concurs- in the result.
SPIES v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 278. Argued December 18, 1942.-Decided January 11, 1943.
Section 145 (b) of the Internal Revenue Code, making it a felony
willfully to attempt to evade or defeat a tax, is not violated by
willful omissions to make a return and pay a tax, defined in § 145 (a)
as misdemeanors. P. 497.
128 F. 2d 743, reversed.

CERTIORARI, post, p. 610, to review the affirmance of a
conviction upon an indictment under 26 U. S. C. § 145 (b)
for attempting to evade and defeat a federal income tax.
.

Mr. David V. Cahill for petitioner.
Assistant Attorney General Clark, with whom Solicitor
GeneralFahy and Messrs.Sewall Key and Earl C. Crouter
were on the brief, for -the United States.
MR. JUSTICE JAcxsoN delivered the opinion of the Court.

Petitioner has been convicted of attempting to defeat
and evade income tax, in viqlation of § 145 (b) of the Revenue Act of 1936, 49 Stat. 1648, 1703, now §'145 (b) of the
Internal Revenue Code. The Circuit Court of Appeals
found the assignmient of error directed to the charge to the
jury the only one of importance enough to notice. The
charge followed the interpretation put upon this section
of the statute in O'Brien v. United States, 51 F. 2d 193
(C. C. A. 7), and United States v. Miro, 60 F. 2d 58 (C. C.

SPIES v. UNITED STATES.
492

493

Opinion'of the Court.

A. 2), which followed it. The Circuit Court of Appeals
affirmed, stating that "we must continue so to construe the
section until the Supreme Court decides otherwise." 128
F.2d 74a.e One Judge said that as a new matter he would
decide otherwise and expressed approval of the dissent in
the O'Brien case. As the construction of the section raises
an important question of federal law not passed on by this
Court, we granted certiorari.
Petitioner admitted at the opening of the trial that he
had sufficient income during the year in question to place
him under a statutory duty to file a return and to pay a tax,
and that he failed to do either. The evidence during
nearly two weeks of trial was directed principally toward
establishing the exact amount of the tax and the manner
of receiving and handling income and accounting, which
the Government contends shows an intent to evade or
defeat the tax. Petitioner's testimony related to his good
character, his physical illness at the time the return became due, and lack of willfulness in his defaults, chiefly
because of a psychological disturbance, amounting to
something more than worry but something less than
insanity.
Section 145 (a) makes, among other things, willful failure to pay a tax or make a return by one having petitioner's
income at the time or times required by law a misdemeaner.' Section 145 (b) makes awillful attempt in any
"Any person required under this title to pay any tax, or required by
law or regulations made under authority thereof to make a return,
keep any records, or supply any information, for the purposes of the
computation, assessment, or collection of any tax imposed by this
title, who willfully fails to pay such tax, make such return, keep such
records, or supply such information, at the time or times required by
law or regulations, shall, in addition to other penalties provided by
law, be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, be fined
not more than $10,000, or imprisoned for not more than one year,
or both, together with the costs of prosecution."

494

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

317 U. S.

manner to evade or defeat any tax such as his a felony.2
Petitioner was not indicted for either misdemeanor. The
indictment contained a single count setting forth the felony charge of willfully attempting to defeat and evade the
tax, and recited willful failure to file a return and Willful
failure to pay the tax as the means to the felonious end.
The petitioner requested an instruction that "You may
not find the defendant guilty of a willful attempt to defeat
and evade the income tax, if you find only that he had willfully failed to make a return of taxable income and has
willfully failed to pay the tax on that income." This was
refused, and the Court charged that "If you find that the
defendant had a net income for 1936 upon which some income tax was due, and I believe that is'
conceded, if you
find that the defendant willfully failed to file an income
tax return for that year, if you find that the defendant willfully failed to pay the tax due on his income for that year,
you may, if you find that the facts and circumstances warrant it find that the defendant willfully attempted to
evade or defeat the tax." The Court refused a request
to instruct that an affirmative act was necessary to constitute a willful attempt, and charged that "Attempt
means to try to do or accomplish. In order to find an attempt it is not necessary to find affirmative steps to accomplish the prohibited purpose. An attempt may be found.
on the basis of inactivity or on refraining to act, as
well."
It is the Government's coqtention that a willful failure
to file a return, together with, a willful failure to pay the
2"'Any. person required under this title to collect, account for, and
.pay over any tax imposed by this title, who willfully fails to collect or
truthfully account for and pay over such tax, and any person who willfully attempts in any manner to evade or defeat any tax imposed by
this title or the payment thereof, shall, in addition to other penalties
provided by law, be guilty of a felony and, upon conviction thereof,
be fined not more than $10,000, or imprisoned for not more than five
years, or both, together with the costs of prosecution."

SPIES v. UNITED STATES.
492

495

Opinion of the Court.

tax, may, without more, constitute an attempt to defeat
or evade a tax within § 145 (b). Petitioner claims that
such proof establishes only two misdemeanors under
§ 145 (a), and that it takes more than the sum of two
such misdemeanors to make the felony under § 145 (b).
The legislative history of the section contains nothing
helpful on the question here. at issue, and we must find the
answer from the Section itself and its context in the
revenue laws.
,The United States has relied for the collection of its
income tax largely upon the taxpayer's own disclosures
rather than upon a system of withholding the tax from
him by those from whom income may be received. This
system can function successfully only if those within and
near taxable income keep and render true accounts. In
many ways, taxpayers' neglect or deceit may prejudice
the orderly and punctual administration of the system
as well as the revenues themselves. Congress has imposed
a variety of sanctions for the protection of the system and
the revenues. The relation of the offense of which this
petitioner has been convicted to other and lesser revenue
offenses appears more clearly from its position in this
structure of sanctions.
The penalties imposed by Congress to enforce. the tax
las embrace both civil and criminal sanctions. The
former consist of additions to the tax upon determinations of fact made by an administrative agency and with
no burden on the Government to prove its case beyond a
reasonable doubt. The latter consist of penal offenses
enforced by the criminal pfucess in the familiar manner.
Invocation of one does not exclude resort to the other.
Helvering v. Mitchell, 303 U. S. 391.'
The failure in a duty to make a timely return, unless
it is shown that such failure is due to reasonable cause
and not due to willful neglect, is punishable by an addition to the tax of 5 to 25 per cent thereof, depending on

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

317 U. S.

the duration of the default. § 291 of the Revenue Act of
1936 and of the Internal Revenue Code. But a duty may
exist even when there is notax liability to serve as a base
for application of a percentage delinquency penalty; the
default may. relate to matters not identifiable with tax
for a. particular period; and the offense may be more
grievous than a case for civil penalty. Hence the willful
failure to make a return, keep records, or supply information when required, is made a misdemeanor, without regard to existence of a tax liability. § 145 (a). Punctuality is important to the fiscal system, and these are
sanctions to assure punctual as well as faithful performance of these duties.
Sanctions to insure payment of the tax are even more
varied- to meet the variety of causes of default. It is the
right as well as the interest of the taxpayer to limit his
admission of liability to the amount he actually owes.
But the law is complicated, accounting treatment of various items raises problems of great complexity, and innocent errors are numerous, as appears from the number who
make overpayments.' It is not the purpose of the law to
penalize frank difference of opinion or innocent
errors
made despite the exercise of reasonable care. Such errors
are corrected by the assessment of the deficiency of tax
and its collection with interest for the delay. §§ 292 and
294 of the Revenue Act of 1936 and of the.Internal Revenue Code. If any part of the deficiency is due to negThe following statistics are given by the Commissioner of Internal
Revenue for the fiscal year 1941: 73,627 certificates of overassessment
of income tax issued, for 39,730 of which no claims had been filed;
236,610 assessments of additional income taxes made; 871 investigations made of alleged evasion of income and miscellaneous taxes; with
*recommendation for prosecution in 239 cases involving 446 individuals,
of whom 192 were tried and 156 convicted. The total number of income tax returns filed was 16,052,007, of which number 7,867,319 reported a tax. Annual Report of the Commissioner of Internal
Revenue (1941), pp. 17, 20, 21, 22.52, 108.
*

SPIES v. UNITED STATES.
492

Opinion of the Court..

ligence or intentional disregard of rules and regulations,
but without intent to defraud, five per cent of such deficiency is added tlereto; and if any part'of any deficiency,
is due to fraud with intent to evade tax, the' additiont is
50 per cent thereof. § 293 of the Revenue Act of 1936
and of the Internal Revenue Code. Willful failure to
pay the tax when due is punishable as a misdemeanor.
§ 145 (a). The climax of this variety of sanctions is the
serious and inclusive felony defined to consist of willful
attempt in any manner to evade or defeat the tax.
§ 145 (b). The question here is whether there is a distinction between the acts necessary to make out the felony
and those which may make out the misdemeanor.
A felony may, and frequently does, include lesser offenses in combination either with each other or with other
elements. We think it clear that this felony may include
one or several of the other offenses against the revenue
laws. But it would be unusual and we would not readily
assume that Congress by the felony defined in § 145 (b)
meant no more than the same derelictions it had just
defined in § 145 (a) as a misdemeanor. Such an interpretation bec&. "es even more difficult to accept when we consider this fei6ny as the capstone of a system of sanctions
which singly or in combination were calculated to induce
prompt and forthright fulfillment of every duty under
the income tax law and to provide a penalty suitable to
every degree of delinquency.
The difference between willful failure to pay a tax when
due, which is made a misdemeanor, and willful. attempt to
defeat and evade one, which is made a felony, is not easy.
to detect or define. Both must be willful,- and willful,
as we have said, is a word of many meanings, its cons,.ruction often being influenced by its context. United States
v. Murdock, 290 U. S. 389. It may well mean something
more as applied to nonpayment of a tax than when applied
to failure to make a return.. Mere vnluntaxy and purpose-

498

OCTOBER TERM,1942.
Opinion of the Court.

317 U. S.

ful, as distinguished from accidental, omission to make a
timely return might meet the test of willfulness. But in
view of our traditional aversion to imprisonment for debt,
we would not without the clearest manifestation of Congressional intent assume that mere knowing and intentional default in payment of a tax, where there had been
no willful failure to disclose the liability, is intended to
constitute a criminal offense of any degree. We would
expect willfulness in such a case to include some element
of evil motive and want of justification in view of all the
financial circumstances of the taxpayer.
Had § 145 (a) not included willful failure to pay a tax,
it would have defined as misdemeanors generally a failure
to observe statutory duties to make timely returns, keep
records, or supply information-duties imposed to facilitate administration of the Act even if, because of insufficient net income, there were no duty to pay a tax. It
would then be a permissible and perhaps an appropriate
constructiqn of § 145 (b) that it made felonies of the same
willful omissions when there was the added element of
duty to pay a tax. The definition of such nonpayment
as a misdemeanor, we think, argues strongly against such
an interpretation.
The difference between thetwo offenses, it seems to us,
is found in the affirmative action implied from the. term
"attempt," as used in the felony subsection. It is not
necessary to involve this subject with the complexities of
the common-law "attempt."' The attempt made criminal by this statute does not consist of conduct that would
culminate in a more serious crime but for some impossibility of 'completion or interruption or frustration.
This is an independent crime, complete in its most serious
4Holmes, Thei Common Law, pp. 65-70; Hall, Criminal AttemptA Study of Foundations of Criminal Liability, 49 Yale Law Journal
789; Arnold, Criminal Attempts-The Rise and Fall of an Abstraction, 40 Yale Law.journal 53.

SPIES v. UNITED STATES.
492

Opinion of the Court.

form when the attempt is complete, and nothing is added
to its criminality by success or consummation, as would
be the case, say, of attempted murder. Although the attempt succeed in evading tax, there is no criminal offense
of that kind, and the prosecution can be only for the attempt. We think that in employing the terminology of
attempt to embrace the gravest of offenses against the
revenues, Congress intended some willful commission in
addition to the willful omissions that make up the list of
misdemeanors. Willful but passive neglect of the statu.
tory duty may constitute the 'lesser offense, but to combine with it a willful and positive attempt to eyade tax in
any manner or to defeat it by any means lifts the offense
to the degree of felony.
Congress did not define or limit the methods by which
a willful attempt to defeat and evade might be accomplished and perhaps did not define lest its effort to do so
result in some unexpected limitation. Nor would we by
definition constrict the scope of the Congressional provision that it may be accomplished "in any manner." By
way of illustration, and not by way of limitation, we would
think affirmative willful attempt may be inferred fromconduct such as keeping a double set of books, making false
entries or alterations, or false invoices or documents, destruction of books or records, concealment of assets or covering up sources of income, handling of one's affairs to
avoid making the records usual in transactions of the kind,
and any conduct, the likely effect of which would be to mislead or to conceal. If the tax-evasion motive plays any
?art in such conduct the offense may be made out even
though the conduct may also serve other purposes such as
concealment of other crime.
In this case there are several items of evidence apart
from the default in filing the return and paying the tax
which the Government claims will support an inference of
willful attempt to evade or defeat the tax. These go to

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

317 U. S.

establish that petitioner insisted that certain income be
paid to him in cash, transferred it to his own bank by armored car, deposited it, not in his own name but in the
names of others of his family, and kept inadequate and misleading records. Petitioner claims other motives animated
him in these matters. We intimate no opinion. Such inferences are for the jury. If on proper submission the
jury found these acts, taken together with willful failure
to file a return and willful failure to pay the tax, to constitute a willful attempt to evade or defeat the tax, we
would consider conviction of a felony sustainable. But we
think a defendant is entitled to a charge which will point
out the necessity forsuch an inference of willful attempt to
defeat or evade the tax from some proof in the case other
than that necessary to make out the misdemeanors; and
if the evidence fails to afford such an inference, the
defendant should be acquitted.
The Government argues against this construction, contending that the milder punishment of a misdemeanor and
the benefits of a short statute of limitation should not be
cxtended to violators of the income tax laws such as political grafters, gamblers, racketeers, .and gangsters. We
doubt that this construction will handicap prosecution for
feloiuy of such flagrant violators. Few of them, we think,
in their efforts to escape tax, stop with mere omission of the
duties put upon them by the statute, but if such there be,
they are entitled to be convicted only of the offense which
they have committed.
Reversed.

