192

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Syllabus.

317 U. S.

effect, terminate that action. It is as effective in these
respects as an injunction issued by a chancellor. If the
order be found to be erroneous, it will have to be set aside
and the plaintiffs permitted to pursue their action to
judgment. The plaintiffs are, therefore, in the present
instance, in no different position than if a state equity court
had restrained them from proceeding in the law action.
Nor are they differently circumstanced than was the plaintiff in the Enelow case. The relief afforded by § 129 is
not restricted by the terminology used. The statute looks
to the substantial effect of the order made. Enelow v.
New York Life Ins. Co., supra, p. 383. Compare General
Electric Co. v. Marvel Rare Metals Co., 287 U. S. 430, 432;
Shanferoke Coal & Supply Corp. v. Westchester Service
Corp., 293 U. S. 449, 451; Griesav. Mutual Life Ins. Co.,
165 F. 48,49.
Question answered "Yes."
MILLER v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.

No. 76. Argued November 18, 1942.-Decided December 7, 1942.
1. The in forma pauperis statute (Act of July 20, 1892, as amended)
does not entitle an indigent defendant in a criminal case to be furnished a verbatim transcript of the evidence at public expense.
P. 197.
2. A verbatim transcript of all the evidence is not necessary for the
preparation of a bill of exceptions; the bill may be prepared from
the judge's or counsel's notes, or from the recollection of witnesses
as to what occurred at the trial, or, in short, from any and all sources
which will contribute to a veracious account of the trial judge's action and the basis of his ruling. P. 198.
3. Upon a petition to the Circuit Court of Appeals for rehearing of
its affirmance, on an appeal in forma pauperis, of a conviction in a
criminal case, it appeared that the petitioner's contention that the

MILLER v. UNITED STATES.
192

Opinion of the Court.

evidence was insufficient to sustain the verdict had not been properly
presented because of his counsel's belief that a transcript of the
evidence (which the petitioner was without funds to obtain) was
*necessary for the preparation of a bill of exceptions covering the
point. Held, that, in the circumstances, the Circuit Court of Appeals had power, under Rule 4 of the Criminal Appeals Rules, to
remand the cause to the District Court for the settlement of a proper
bill of exceptions. P. 199.
4. The cause is remanded to the Circuit Court of Appeals for entry of
an order permitting settlement in the District Court of a bill of exceptions presenting the point urged by the petitioner. Thereupon,
it will be the duty of counsel for the petitioner to submit a bill of
exceptions made up from the best sources available; and it will then
be the duty of the district judge to assist in amplifying, correcting
and perfecting the bill, and to settle the same in order to present
the evidence given at the trial. P. 199.
123 F. 2d 715, reversed.
CERTIORARI,

316 U. S. 658, to review the affirmance of a

conviction of kidnapping in violation of 18 U. S. C. § 408a.
For other opinions of the court below in this case, see 124
F. 2d 849, 126 F. 2d 462.
Mr. Howard C. Westwood, with whom Mr. Charles M.
Davison, Jr. was on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Archibald Cox, with whom Solicitor General Fahy,
Assistant Attorney GeneralBerge, and Mr. Robert S. Erdahl were on the brief, for the United States.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS delivered the opinion of the Court.

This case presents important questions in respect of
criminal proceedings against poor persons in federal courts.
For this reason we granted certiorari.
The petitioner was indicted, tried, and convicted in
the United States District Court for Western Arkansas for
kidnappinig in violation of Title 18 U. S. Code § 408a. As
he was without funds to conduct his defense, the court
appointed counsel for him. The person charged to have
503873-43-20

194

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

317 U. S.

been kidnapped was the illegitimate daughter of petitioner's wife.
Two defenses were presented. The first was that the
petitioner came within the exception stated in the statute,
that it shall not apply to a kidnapping "in the case of a
minor, by a parent thereof." To sustain this defense, petitioner offered evidence to prove that the girl was a minor
and that, having married her mother, he stood in the relation of a parent to her. The second defense was that
the petitioner had neither taken nor detained the young
woman against her will. The District Judge ruled against
the petitioner's contention that he was a parent within the
intendment of the statute, but sent the case to the jury on
the question whether he had apprehended or detained his
wife's daughter against her will. The jury rendered a
verdict of guilty.- Judgment of sentence was entered.
In due time, petitioner's counsel filed notice of appeal
in which, amongst others, reasons advanced were that the
court erred in refusing peremptory instructions for acquittal at the conclusion of the Government's case and at the
conclusion of all the evidence; that the verdict of the jury
was contrary to the weight of the evidence; and that the
court erred in refusing to instruct the jury that, if they
found the complaining witness was under the age of
eighteen years at the time of the kidnapping they must
find the petitioner not guilty.
The District Court entered an order permitting the petitioner to appeal in forma pauperis,and the Circuit Court
of Appeals also permitted the prosecution of the proceedings in that court in forma pauperis.
In connection with the appeal, errors were specifically
assigned to the ruling of the District Court respecting the
status of the petitioner as a parent, but no error was so assigned to the action of the court in submitting the fact
questions respecting the alleged apprehension and detention of the complaining witness, although the assignments

MILLER v. UNITED STATES.
192

Opinion of the Court.

of error concluded with a prayer for a reversal for "other
manifest errors in the record and proceedings." The Bill
of Exceptions allowed by the District Court set forth only
.so much of the proceedings as went to the question of petitioner's asserted parenthood of the alleged minor. It
also included the proceedings on motions for directed verdict and the action of the court upon those motions, but
none of the evidence on which the motions were based.
The Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed the judgment
and, in so doing, dealt only with the question of the petitioner's parenthood.' At the close of its opinion it stated:
"No other question having-been raised on this appeal, it
follows that the judgment must be and is affirmed."
The petitioner entered upon service of his sentence and,
being without counsel, personally forwarded to the Circuit Court of Appeals a petition for the appointment 6f
counsel and a petition for rehearing. In the latter, he
urged that there was no testimony in the record indicating
that he took or detained his wife's daughter against her
will, and prayed that the Circuit Court of Appeals issue
a writ of certiorari to bring up a complete transcript of
the testimony taken at his trial. In a per curiam opinion,
the court stated that it had decided the only question before it, but ordered that the United States Attorney answer the petition so that it might be ascertained whether
a Bill of Exceptions could be prepared to raise the questions which the petitioner desired to have decided. The
prosecuting officer answered alleging that the entire testimony in the case had been taken stenographically by the
district judge's secretary, whose notes were available and
bould be transcribed. The answer further set forth that
the judge's secretary had important duties to perform;
that the testimony which he took Stenographically was of
large volume; that its transcription would involve labor
2

123 F. 2d 715.
124 F. 2d 849.

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

317 U. S.

for which he ought to be paid; and that the Government
could not be required to pay for a transcript of the evidence or to furnish such a transcript to the defendant.
To this answer, the petitioner filed a response in which,
amongst other things, he alleged that he had repeatedly
urged his attorney to present to the Circuit Court of
Appeals the question of the sufficiency of the evidence to
sustain his conviction, and that his attorney had invariably
replied that this could not be done without obtaining a
transcript of the evidence so as to make a proper Bill of
Exceptions covering the subject; that the attorney further
advised him that a transcript of the testimony could not be
procured because the petitioner had no funds to pay for
its preparation. It stands admitted on the record that
these are the facts.
The Circuit Court of Appeals, in a third opinion,' stated
that it had requested a response to the petition for rehearing in order to ascertain whether the Government, as in
Holmes v. United States, 314 U. S. 583, would consent to
the vacation of the judgment so that a proper record might
be made as the basis for consideration of the question urged
by the petitioner. The court stated that, in view of the
Government's opposition to a vacation of the judgment
or a'reopening of the case, it felt itself without power
to act further in the matter, and indicated that if the
petitioner desired to bring the cause to this Court such
facilities should be furnished him as were necessary to that
end without the obligation to pay fees or costs.
The petitioner presented to this Court a petition for
certiorari and a petition for leave to proceed in forma
pauperis. We granted the writ and gave leave to proceed
in forma pauperis. As he was without counsel, we
appointed counsel to act for him in this Court.
8 126 F. 2d 462.

MILLER v. UNITED STATES.
192

Opinion of the Court.

1. There is no law of the United States creating the
position of official court stenographer and none requiring
the stenographic report of any case, civil or criminal, and
there is none providing for payment for the services of a
stenographer in reporting judicial proceedings. The practice has been for the parties to agree that a designated person shall so report. The one selected must be paid by private arrangement with one or more of the parties to the
litigation. The amount paid to him is not costs in the
cause nor taxable as such against any of the parties.
2. At the instance of the Conference of. Senior Circuit
Judges, legislation has been introduced in Congress to provide an official system of reporting and to defray the cost
of it. That legislation, as we understand, will, if adopted,
obviate the difficulties presented in this case. As the
matter stands, however, it is clear that the judge's secretary
who stenographically reported the trial is not an officer of
the United, States in his capacity as reporter, is not entitled to fees from the United States for his services, and
his compensation cannot be treated as costs. The Act of
July 20, 1892, as amended,' applies only to court costs,
permits the taking of an appeal without prepayment of
cost of printing the record in the appellate court, and provides in certain cases for the printing of that record at
Government expense. It does not authorize the procurement of a transcript of the testimony nor the payment for
services in reporting evidence taken at the trial nor for
the obtaining of it by the Government in behalf of an
indigent defendant.
3. It is urged by the petitioner that the District Court
has inherent power, in the interests of justice, to order
preparation of a transcript for the petitioner's use in making up a bill of exceptions and to impose the expense of so
28 U. S. C. § 832.

198.

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

317 U. S.

doing upon the.Government. The respondent points out
that the Comptroller General has ruled that there is no
appropriation from which such expense may be paid 5 and,
whether. he is or is not right, it remains that no appropriation is available without authorization of payment
by the Attorney General. That officer appears unwilling
to test the matter by making such authorization. We
need not stop to consider these opposing views because of
the facts developed in the briefs and in argument.
4. As we have said, the trial judge's secretary took
stenographic notes of the entire testimony and his notes
are available. It was stated at the bar that this gentleman
stands ready to read his notes info a dictaphone without
charge to the petitioner. In the light of these facts it would
seem that it is possible to prepare an adequate bill of exceptions fairly reflectingthe purport of the testimony.
It has become'the usual, because the more convenient,
method to prepare a bill of exceptions by the use of a
stenographic transcript of the evidence. Even so, the
bill ought not to contain all of the evidence but only that
which is relevant to the issues made upon the appeal, and
often it is expedient ind satisfactory to summarize the
evidence and transmute it into narrative form. Historically a bill of exceptions does not embody a verbatim
transcript of the evidence but, on the contrary, a statement with respect to the evidence adequate to present the
contentions made in the appellate court. Such a bill
may be prepared from notes kept by counsel, from the
judge's notes, from the recollection of witnesses as to what
occurred at the trial, and, in short, from any and all sources
which will contribute to a veracious account of the trial
judge's action and the basis on which his ruling was
invoked.
8 9 Comp.

Gen. 503; d. 21 Comp. Gen. 347.

MILLER v. UNITED STATES.
192

Opinion of the Court.

Counsel in this case could, therefore, have prepared and
presented to the trial judge, as was his duty, a bill of exceptions so prepared, and it would then have become the
duty of the trial judge to approve it, if accurate, or, if not,
to assist in making it accurately reflect the trial proceedings. We are unwilling to hold that the petitioner is foreclosed from obtaining a bill in the circumstances of this
case. Petitioner repeatedly insisted that counsel procure a proper record on appeal to present the question of
the sufficiency of the evidence to sustain his conviction.
The petitioner did everything that lay within his power
to obtain such a proper record, and we think he should
not be penalized for the failure of his appointed counsel
to take the necessary measures, if the power exists to
afford him a hearing on the point he deems material.
5. We are of opinion that the Circuit Court of Appeals
had power in the circumstances to remand the cause for
the settlement of a proper bill of exceptions. Rule 4
of the Criminal Appeals Rules' provides that, after the
filing of the notice of appeal, the appellate court shall have
supervision of the proceedings on appeal, including the
proceedings relating to the preparation of the record on
appeal, and that it may entertain a motion for directions
to the trial court. This power extends to the procurement
of a proper bill of exceptions ' and ought to be liberally
exercised where the contention is that the evidence- is
insufficient to support the verdict.'
We think the right course in this instance is to remand
the cause to the Circuit Court of Appeals in order that
it may enter an order permitting the settlement of a bill
818 U. S. C. A. § 688ff
Ray v. United States, 301 U. S. 158, 164, 167; Holmes v. United
States, 314 U. S. 583.
8Hemphill v. United States, 312 U. S' 657.

200

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Statement of the Case.

317 U. S.

of exceptions in the District Court to present the point
urged by petitioner. Upon the entry of such an order
it will be the duty of counsel for petitioner to present a
bill made up from the best sources available. It will
then become the duty of the district judge to assist in
amplifying, correcting, and perfecting this bill from such
sources, and to settle the same in order to present the
evidence given at the trial. From such a bill the Circuit
Court of Appeals will no doubt be able to decide whether
there was evidence to sustain petitioner's conviction.
So ordered.
UNITED STATES v. WAYNE PUMP CO. ET AL.
APPEALS FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR WPHE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.

Nos. 81 and 82. Argued November 16, 1942.-Decided
December 7, 1942.
1. The decision of the District Court in these cases, sustaining demurrers to indictments for violations of the Sherman Act, was based not
only on the construction of the statute but also on the independent
ground of the insufficiency of the indictments as pleadings, and
therefore was not appealable directly to this Court under the Criminal Appeals Act. P. 207.
2. The amendment by Act of May 9, 1942, of the Criminal Appeals
Act, which for the first time permits appeals to the Circuit Courts
of Appeals from orders sustaining demurrers to indictments in cases
not directly appealable to this Court, and which directs that such
appeals, when erroneously taken to this Court, shall be remanded
to the Circuit Court of Appeals, is not retrospective in operation
and is inapplicable to appeals for which, when taken, there was no
statutory authority. P. 209.
44 F. Supp. 949, appeals dismissed.

APPEALS from judgments of the District Court in two
cases, heard together, sustaining demurrers to indictments
for violations of the Sherman Antitrust Act.

