UNITED STATES v. RICE.
56

Syllabus.

the creditors and stockholders but by the court as a matter
of law.
An "equitable adjustment" of the respondent's additional payment for extra work involved merel 7 the-ascertainment of the cost of digging, moving, and placing earth,
and the addition to that cost of a reasonable and customary allowance for profit. These were inquiries of fact.
If the contracting officer erroneously answered them,
Article 15 of the contract provided the only 6venue for
relief.
The judgment is
Reversed.

UNITED STATES v. RICE

ET AL.,

RECEIVERS FOR

D. C. ENGINEERING COMPANY, INC.
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 31.

Argued October 22, 1942.-Decided November 9, 1942.

Under a Government contract for the installation of equipment in
a building, the contractor agreed to complete the work within the
time allowed under another contract, with another contractor, for
the construction of the building. The building contract provided
for complet _n within 25Q days after notice, but permitted changes
in the specifications to be made in the event of discovery of subsurface conditions materially different from those shown in the
drawings or indicated in the specifications. Shortly after notice
to begin had been given, work under the building contract was
suspended pending the making of such a permitted change. Held:
1. A delay resulting from such a permitted change did not
constitute a breach by the Government of the equipment contract. P. 64.
The Government was not bound to have the building ready for
the work of the equipment contractor at a particular time.
2. The equipment contractor was not entitled to recover consequential damages for delay thus resulting; for such a delay, extension of the time for completion was an "equitable. ijustment" under
the contract. P. 66
95 Ct. Cls. 84, reversed.

62

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

317 U. S.

CERTIORARI, 316 U. S. 653, to review a judgment against
the United States in a suit upon a contract. The engineering company, in charge of the receivers, is referred to
in the following opinion as the respondent.

Mr. Valentine Brookes argued the cause, and Solicitor
General Fahy, Assistant Attorney General Shea, and
Messrs. Melvin H. Siegel, Morton Lif tin, and. Robert L.
Stern were on the brief, for the United States.
Mr. R. Aubrey Bogley, with whom Messrs. FredericD6
McKenney, John S. Flannery, and G. Bowdoin Craighill
were on the brief, for respondents.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK delivered the opinion of the Court.

We granted certiorari to review a judgment against the
United States by the Court of Claims, 95 Ct. Cls. 84, interpreting a widely used standard form construction contract
in a manner alleged to be in conflict with this Court's interpretation of An analogous contract in Crook Co. v.
United States, 270 U. S. 4.
Respondent agreed to install plumbing, heating, and
electrical equipment in a Veterans' Home to be erected at
T ogus, Maine, while another
contractor was to do the
general work of preparing the site and constructing the
building. Respondent agreed, for a stipulated price, to
begin work upon notice to proceed and to finish by the
time the work had been completed by the principal contractor. If respondent failed to complete the work within
the time thus set, the Government was entitled to terminate the contract or to require the payment of liquidated
damages. The length of time allowed the principal contractor under his contract, subject to certain qualifications
discussed below, was 250 days, and it was into this schedule
that respondent was to co6rdinate its own activity.

UNITED STATES v. RICE.
61
I The 'Government

Opinion of the Court.

gave notice to the general contractor
to begin work onMay 9, 1932. On May 12, respondent
was notified to begin; and early in June its superintendent
arrived in Maine with tools and equipment. Upon his
arrival he found that the general contractor had been
stopped by the Government because of the unexpected discovery of an unsuitable soil condition. It became necessary to change the site of the building and to alter the
specifications, and, because of the delay attendant upon
preparing a new foundation, respondent was unable to
begin work until October. As a consequence, overhead
expenses accumulated during the period of delay, and
much of the work which respondent's employees otherwise
would have done either during warm weather or after the
building was enclosed, was done outside in cold weather.
Because of the delay and pursuant to the adjustment
clauses of the contract, the Government extended the time
of performance by respondent; and, because of structural
changes, it re-adjusted the amount due. It increased
payments to the principal contractor, reduced the payment
td respondent by about $1,000 because of construction
economies under the new plans, and waived any claim to
liquidated damages for the period of the extension. The
hospital was completed-some months after it would have
been finished had it not been for the change of plan.
The respondent was paid the full amount agreed on for
the work it did. It then sued for about $26,000 for damages alleged to have been suffered due to delay for which
the Government was responsible.. The Court of Claims
held the Government was liable for damages resulting
solely from delay, but found that $13,600 of the alleged
loss was due to respondent's own faulty estimate and
financial conditions, and that $3,000 of it was caused by
respondent's and the principal contractor's delays. Respondent sought no review of denial of this part of its

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

317 U. S.

claim. However, the court concluded that the balance
claimed, $9,349, arose from overhead costs during the summer of 1932 when the new foundation was being prepared,
and from a decrease in labor effectiveness resulting because
much of the work had to be done outside in cold weather.
The judgment rendered under this conclusion is what we
have before us.
The chief issues of the case are whether the delay in
commencing the construction was a breach of contract
by the Government; whether, regardless of the answer to
that question, respondent was entitled to an equitable
adjustment for damages resulting from the delay, in addition to the extension of time already granted; and whether
respondent is barred from any recovery because it failed
to appeal certain decisions affecting its contract to the
chief officer of the department. Under the view we take
of the first two of these questions, it is unnecessary to
answer the third.
I. The Government contends, as it did in the Crook case,
supra, that the change in specifications resulting in delay
was not a breach of the contract, but in accordance with its
terms; that the extent of its obligation for permitted
changes was fixed by the contract; and that for delay the
Government was required to do no more than grant an
extension of time. Put another way, the Government concedes that, if an alteration of plan required respondent to
use an extra 50 tons of steel, the Government would be
liable for the value of the steel and the cost of installation;
.but it argues that under the terms of this contract an
extension of time should be accepted as full equitable adjustment for all damages caused by the fact that the work
was done at the later period made necessary by the permritted change. Essentially it repeats the doctrine of
Chouteau v. United States, 95 U. S. 61, 68: "For the
reasonable cost and expenses of the changes made in the
construction, payment was to be made; but for any in-

UNITED STATES v. RICE.
Opinion of the Court.

61

crease in the cost of the work not changed, no provision
was made."
We agree with this view. We do not think the terms of
the contract bound the Government to have the contemplated structure ready for respondent at a fixed time.
Provisions of the contract showed that the dates were
tentative and subject to modification by the Government.
The contractor was absolved from payment of prescribed
liquidated damages for delay, if it resulted from a number
of causes, including "acts of Government" and "unusually
severe weather." The Government reserved the right to
make changes which might interrupt the work, and even
to suspend any portion of the construction if it were
deemed necessary. Respondent was required to adjust
its work to that of the general contractor, so that delay by
the general contractor would necessarily delay respondent's work. Under these circumstances it seems appropriate to repeat what was said in the Crook case, that
"When such a situation was displayed by the contract it
was not to be expected that the Government should bind
itself to a fixed time for the work to come to an end, and
there is not a word in the instrument by which it did so,
'unless an undertaking contrary to what seems to us the implication is implied." Crook Co. v. UnitedStates, supra,6.
Decisions of this Court prior to the Crook case also make it
clear that contracts such as this do not bind the Government to have the property ready for work by a contractor
at a particular time. Wells Bros. Co. v. United States,
254 U. S. 83, 86; Chouteau v. United States, supra; cf.
United States v. Smith, 94 U. S.214, 217.
" As pointed out, the delay here resulted from a change
in specifications made necessary by discovery of soil
unsuitable for foundation purposes. The Government
having reserved the right to make such changes upon discovery of "subsurface and (or) latent conditions at the
503873-43------12

66

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

317 U. S.

site materially differing from those shown on the drawings
or indicated in the specifications," delays incident to the
permitted changes cannot amount to a breach of contract.
If there are rights to recover damages where the Government exercises its reserved power to delay, they must be
found in the particular provisions fixing the rights of the
parties.
II. Two of the Judges of the Court of Claims thought
consequential damages resulting from delay were recoverable under paragraphs 4 and 3 of the contract. These
paragraphs1 deal with closely related problems. Article
3, entitled "Changes," governs the procedure under which
the Government may alter the specifications of the contract for general causes. Article 4, entitled "Changed
Conditions," governs the procedure under which the Government may alter the contract to meet unanticipated
physical conditions. Article 4 incorporates by reference
1 "Article

3. Changes.-The contracting officer may at any time,

by a written order, and without notice to the sureties, make changes
in the drawings and (or) specifications of this contract and within the
general scope thereof. If such changes cause an increase or decrease
in the amount due under this contract, or in the time required for its
performance, an equitable adjustment shall be made and the contract
shall be modified in writing accordingly ...
"Article 4. Changed conditions.-Should the contractor encounter,
or the Government discover, during the progress of the work, subsurface and (or) latent conditions at the site materially differing from
those shown on the drawings or indicated in the specifications, the
attention of the contracting officer shall be called immediately to such
conditions before they are disturbed. The contracting officer shall
thereupon promptly investigate the conditions, and if he finds that they
materially differ from those shown on the drawings or indicated in
the specifications, he shall at once, with the written approval of the
head of the department or his representative, make such changes in
the drawings and (or) specifications as he may find necessary, and
any increase or decrease of cost and (or) difference in time resulting
from such changes shall be adjusted as provided in Article 3 of this
contract."

UNITED STATES v. RICE.
61

Opinion of the Court.

the same machinery of adjustment as that specified in
article 3. Both clauses essentially provide that, if changes
are made affecting an increase or decrease of cost or affecting the length of time of performance, an equitable adjustment shall be made.
Clearly, questions of interpretation in clauses so similar
should, if possible, be resolved in the same fashion in each
of them. Clause 4 was added to the standard form contract since clause 3, and we therefore turn first to decisions
interpreting the latter clause. The Court of Claims,
relying on principles announced in the Chouteau, Wells,
and Crook cases, supra, has uniformly held that the "increase or decrease of cost" language in Art. 3, and in similar clauses, is not broad enough to include damages for
delay; that "It was never contemplated . . . that delays
incident to changes would subject the Government to
damage beyond that involved in the changes themselves."
Moran Bros. Co. v. United States, 61 Ct. Cls. 73, 102; and
for the same view, see McCord v. United States, 9 Ct. Cls.
155, 169; Swift v. United States, 14 Ct. Cls. 208, 231;
Griffiths v. United States, 74 Ct. Cls. 245, 255.
Were this a matter of first impression, we would again
come to the same conclusion -regarding this clause. It
seems wholly reasonable that *:anincrease or decrease in
the amount due" should be met with an alteration of
price, and that "an increase or decrease . . . in the time
required" should be met with alteration of the time allowed; for "increase or decrease of cost" plainly applies
to the changes in cost due to the structural changes required by the altered specification and not to consequential damages which might flow from delay taken care of
in the "difference in time" provision. The provision as
to time serves the large purpose of removing from persons
in the position of respondent liability for "delay" beyond
the stipulated date for which they might otherwise have

68

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

317 U. S.

their contract terminated or might be required to pay
liquidated damages without fault.
Despite the similarity of the two clauses, a minority of
the court below has in this instance concluded that they
may be distinguished and that respondent is entitled to
damages for delay under clause 4. In supporting this
view, respondents here rely primarily on Rust Engineering Co. v. United States, 86 Ct. Cls. 461, 475, where the
court below distinguishes the two clauses by saying that
the type of change contemplated in clause 4 is more basic
than that under clause 3, and that therefore different liabilities should attach:
"The changes made necessary by reasun of the conditions encountered in excavating for the foundation of
the building were not reasonable changes within the scope
of the drawings and specifications as contemplated in Art.
3 of the, contract, but represented important changes
based upon changed conditions which were unknown and
materially different from those shown on the drawings or
indicated in the specifications. Such changes were, therefore, clearly not within the contemplation of either party
to the contract at the time it was made. .. "
And see Sobel v. United States, 88 Ct. Cls. 149, 165.
No such strained distinction between paragraphs 3 and
4 can stand. It does not help to argue that the changes
made under clause 4 "are not within the contemplation
of either party," since the changes made under clause 3
are also not contemplated in advance. Both clauses deal
with changes made necessary by new plans or new discoveries made subsequent to the signing of the contract.
For delays incident to such unanticipated changes, the
contractor was, under either section, to be granted a "compensating extension of time." Wells Bros. Co. v. United
States, supra, 86.

EX PARTE KAWATO.
Syllabus.

61

In this case there were two consequences of the discovery that the Home could not be built as originally planned.
One was an alteration of specifications, which resulted in
a slight cut in respondent's outlay and in its compensation.
The other was the delay itself, and for this the time necessary to perform the contract was equitably adjusted by
extension, thereby relieving respondent of liquidated
damages which could otherwise have been imposed.
Under the terms of the contract, it is entitled to no more.
Reversed.
EX PARTE KUMEZO KAWATO.
ON PETITION FOR WRIT OF MANDAMUS.

No. 10, Original.

Argued October 12, 1942.-Decided November
9, 1942.

1. In an original proceeding in this Court upon a petition for a writ
of mandamus to compel the District Court to proceed with the trial
of a suit in admiralty, a contention that the writ should be denied
because the District Court, although it had ordered the abatement of the suit for the dration of the war solely on the ground
of the libelant's status as an alien enemy, could have dismissed the
libel on other grounds, particularly for claimed defects in the
allegations of the libel, is irrelevant; since, if the suit was erroneously
abated on the ground assigned, the libelant is entitled to have the
District Court proceed with the action and pass upon the sufficiency
of his allegations in an orderly way. P. 71.
2. Mandamus is the appropriate remedy where the District Court
has erroneously ordered the abatement, for the duration of the war,
of a suit in admiralty by a resident alien enemy. P. 71.
.3. The ancient rule of the common law barring suits by resident alien
enemies has survived only so far as necessary to prevent use of the
courts to accomplish a purpose which might hamper the war effort
or give aid to the enemy. P. 72.
4. The President not having made, under the Trading with the Enemy
Act, any declaration as to "alien enemies," a resident alien enemy-

