OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Syllabus.

317 U. S.

doctrine, even when not required to do so by the federal
act, then our own decisions, including the recent Motor
Boat case, preclude a reversal of the Washington courts.'
Escape from Jensen's embarrassments by the adoption of
the twilight zone doctrine, in disregard of the jurisdictional command of the federal statute, is plainly not permissible. I am not persuaded that it is practicable.
DEPARTMENT OF BANKING OF NEBRASKA, RECEIVER, v. PINK, SUPERINTENDENT OF INSURANCE OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
ON PETITION FOR WRIT OF CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME
COURT OF NEW YORK.

No. 466.

Decided December 21, 1942.

1. After a final judgment by the New York Court of Appeals, entered
in the lower court upon remittitur, an amendment merely certifying
that a federal question was presented and decided does not extend
the time-three months from the rendition of the judgment of the
higher court-within which petition for certiorari can be filed in
this Court. P. 266.
2. Although a writ of certiorari to review a judgment of the highest
court of a State may-properly run to a lower court where the record
is physically lodged, and where under New York practice a judgment
is entered upon the remittitur of the Court of Appeals, it is nevertheless immaterial whether the record is physically lodged in the one
court or the other, since this Court has ample power to obtain it
from either. P. 267.
3. The time within which application to review a final judgment of
the New York Court of Appeals may be made to this Court runs
from the date of the rendition of the judgment in that court, and
not from the date when, under the local practice, judgment was entered on remittitur in the lower state court. P. 267.
4. A judgment or order of the Court of Appeals of New York is final
for purposes of review by this Court when the record reveals that
it leaves nothing to be done by the lower court except the ministerial act of entering judgment on the remittitur. P. 267.

DEPT. OF BANKING v. PINK.
264

265

Opinion of the Court.

5. The test of the finality prerequisite to a review in this.Court is
not whether under local rules of practice the judgment is denominated final, but is whether the record shows that the order of the
appellate court has in fact fully adjudicated rights and that that
adjudication is not subject to further review by a state court.
P. 268.
6. Where the judgment is final in this sense, the time for applying to
this Court runs from the date of the judgment. P. 268.
Petition denied.

PETITION for certiorari to review a judgment entered in
the Supreme Court of New York as directed by remittitur
from the Court of Appeals of the State. For report below,
see 288 N. Y. 712, 43 N. E. 2d 93; 289 N. Y. 624, 43 N. E.
2d 840; 289 N. Y. 841, 47 N. E. 2d 441.
Messrs. Walter R. Johnson, Attorney General of
Nebraska, Morris Amchan and Howard Saxton were on
the brief for petitioner.
Mr. Edward F. Keenan was on the brief for respondent.
The States of Colorado, Connecticut, Florida, Georgia,
Indiana, Kentucky, Missouri, North Dakota, Ohio, Texas,
Utah, and Wyoming, by their respective Attorneys General, filed a brief, as amici curiae, in support of petitioner,
and urging reversal.
PER CURIAM.

This case is here on a petition for certiorari to the
Supreme Court 6f New York. It appears from the record
that a judgment of that court was affirmed by an order
of the Appellate Division, which vWas on June 18, 1942
ordered affirmed by the Court of Appeals, whose remittitur to the Supreme Court was issued the same day. On
June 25 the order and-judgment of the Court of Appeals
were made the order and judgment of the Supreme
Court.

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

317 U. S.

A motion was afterwards filed in the Court of Appeals
to amend its rmittitur by adding to it the statement that
a federal question, on which the petition for certiorari
relies, was presented and necessarily passed upon in that
court. So far as appears, the motion did not seek a reargument or rehearing of any part of the case; it was no
more than a request that the Court of Appeals declare
what had in fact occurred upon its previous decision of
the case. On July 29 the Court of Appeals granted the
motion and amended its remittitur accordingly. •On September 16, the Supreme Court directed that the order
amending the remittitur be made the order of the Su*preme Court. The petition for certiorari was filed in this
Court on October 20.
Under the three-months limitation imposed by the
statute, 28 U. S. C. § 350, the petition for certiorari is
timely only if the amendment of the remittitur extended
the time within which to apply for certiorari. We are
unable to conclude that it .had such effect. Unlike a
motion for reargument or rehearing, it did not seek to
have the Court of Appeals reconsider any question decided
in the case. The final judgment already rendered was
not challenged; what was sought was merely the court's
certification that a federal question had been presented
to it for decision, and this could have no different effect
on the finality of the judgment than a like amendment of
the court's opinion.
A timely petition for rehearing tolls the running of the
three-months period because it operates to suspend the
finality of the state court's judgment, pending the court's
further determination whether the judgment should be
modified so as to alter its adjudication of the rights of the
parties. Here no such alteration of the rights adjudicated
was asked, and the" finality of the court's first order was
never suspended. Accordingly we must deny the petition

DEPT. OF BANKING v. PINK.
264

Opinion of the Court.

for certiorari on the ground that it was not filed within
the time provided by law.
Certain questions With respect to the timeliness of applications for review of state court judgments, which are
now pending before us in petitions for rehearing in two
cases, have recurred so frequently that we think it appropriate to add a word for the guidance of the Bar. It is
true that our writ to review a judgment of the highest
court of a state may properly run to a lower court where
the record is physically lodged, and where under N w York
practice a judgment is entered upon the remittitur of the
Court of Appeals. It is nevertheless immaterial whether
the record is physically lodged in the one court or the other,
since we have ample power to obtain it from either.
Atherton v. Fowler, 91 U. S. 143, 146. In reliance upon.
the early decision in Green v. Van Buskerk, 3 Wall. 448,
the period for appeal or application for certiorari has on
,occasion been computed not from the judgment or order
of the New York Court of Appeals, but from the judgment
subsequently entered by the lower court upon the Court
of Appeals' remittitur. This practice, which is a departure from the rule applied to cases from other states, is inconsistent with our many decisions on the nature of a final
judgment under § 237 of the Judicial Code, 28 U. S. C.
§ 344, and cannot be sanctioned. See especially Chief
Justice Waite's opinion in Mower v. Fletcher, 114 U. S.
127, where a state appellate court's judgment was held to
be final and reviewable when it ended the litigation by
fully determining the rights of the parties, so that nothing
remained to be done by the lower court except the ministerial act of entering the judgment which the appellate
court had directed. See also Wurts v. Hoagland, 105 U. S.
701, 702, and Clark v. Williard, 292 U. S. 112, 117-118.
This rule applies with equal force to cases from New York.

268

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

317 U. S.

in which the judgment or order of the Court of Appeals
is reviewable here as a final judgment when the record
reveals that it leaves nothing to be done by the lower court
except the ministerial act of entering judgment on the
remittitur. Such an order is, within the meaning of § 237
of the Judicial Code, a final judgment reviewable here.
For the purpose of the finality which is prerequisite to a
review in this Court, the test is not whether under local
rules of practice the judgment is denominated final (Wick
v. Superior Court, 278 U. S. 575; Cheltenham & Abington
Sewerage Co. v. Pennsylvania Public Utility Comm'n,
post, p. 588), but rather whether the record shows that the
order of the appellate court has in fact fully adjudicated
rights and that that adjudication is not subject to further
reviewby a state court (see Gorman v. Washington University, 316 U. S. 98). Where the order or judgment is
final in this sense, the time for applying to this Court runs
from the date of the appellate court's c der, since the
object of the statute is to limit the applicant's time to
three months- from the date when the finality of the
judgment for purposes of review is established.
It was for this reason that we recently held that the
three-months requirement had not been complied with in
Monks v. Lee, post, p. 590, and Bunn v. Atlanta, post,
p. 666, in which cases judgments were brought here for
review from the courts of California and Georgia, and in
each of which a petition for rehearing is today denied,
post, p. 711. The petition for certiorari in this case must
likewise be denied for want of jurisdiction.
So ordered.

