OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Syllabus.

317 U. S.

distributees. 1' But these sections deal with property
which does not pass through the executor's hands, and the
Congressional direction with regard to such property is

wholly compatible with the intent to leave the determination of the burden of the estate tax to state law as to
properties actually handlkd as part of the estate by the
executor.
Since § 124 of the New York Decedent Estate Law is
not n conflict with the federal estate tax statute, it does
not contravene the supremacy clause of the Constitution.
Nor does the fact that the ultimate incidence of the federal
estate tax is governed by state law violate the requirement
of geographical uniformity. Cf. Phillips v. Commissioner,
283 U. S. 589, 602.
The judgment is reversed and the cause remanded for
further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
Reversed.
HELVERING, COMMISSIONER OF INTERNAL
REVENUE, v. OHIO LEATHER CO.*
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE.
SIXTH CIRCUIT.

No. 40.

Argued October 21, 1942.-Decided November 9, 1942.

1. A corporation claiming a credit under § 26 (c) (2) of the Revenue
Act of 1936, in the computation of the tax imposed by that Act
on undistributed profits, has the burden of showing compliance with

the exact terms of the Section. P. 106.
2. The obligation of the taxpayer's contract in each of these cases,
to pay a specified portion of the earnings of the taxable year upon
12 This argument was accepted in Bemis v. Converse, 246 Mass. 131,
140 N. E. 686, and Farmers'Loan ,& Trust Co. v. Winthrop, 238 N. Y.
488, 144 N. E. 769.
* Together with No. 41, Helvering, Commissioner of Internal
Revenue, v. Strong Mfg. Co., and No. 42, Helvering, Commissioner.
of Internal Revenue, v. Warren Tool Corp., also on writs of certiorari,
316 1J. S. 651, to the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit.

HELVERING v. OHIO LEATHER CO.
102

Counsel for Parties.

indebtedness, was only that payment should be made on or before
a certain date subsequent to the close of the taxable year; and a
credit in computing the tax on undistributed profits was not allowable under § 26 (c) (2) of the Revenue Act of 1936, since the contract did not require the specified portion of earnings "to be paid
within the taxable year" or "to be irrevocably set aside within the
taxable year," within the meaning of the Section. P. 107.
3. That a taxpayer with such a contract might be constrained by
prudent business judgment or by the possibility of fiduciary liability
to refrain from using the portion of earnings involved or actually to
set it aside, is immaterial. Nor is it material that anticipatory
payments were in fact made within the taxable year. P. 107.
4. Section 43 of the Revenue Act of 1936 is inapplicable here, since
the question is not whether the taxpayers made payment, either
on a cash or on an accrual basis, within the taxable year, but whether
their contracts required them to pay or to "irrevocably set aside"
within the taxable year. P. 108.
5. That the interpretation of a tax deduction statute in accordance
with its plain meaning produces harsh results is a matter for Congress and not the courts. P. 110.
6. The legislative history. of § 26 (c) (2) does not support the contention that the Section embraces the contracts involved here.
P. 110.
124 F. 2d 360, 397, reversed.

CERTIORARI, 316 U. S. 651, to review the affirmance of
decisions of the Board of Tax Appeals (No. 41, 41 B. T. A.
1273) redetermining tax deficiencies.

Mr. Valentine Brookes argued the cause, and Solicitor
General Fahy, Assistant Attorney General Clark, and
Messrs. Sewall Key, Edward First, and Richard S. Salant
were on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Donald J. Lynn for the Ohio Leather Company;
Mr. Raymond S. Powers, with whom Mr. Arthur Morgan
was on the brief, for the Strong Manufacturing Company;
and Mr. Raymond T. Sawyer, Jr., with whom Mr. Raymond T. Jackson was on the brief, for the Warren Tool
Corporation,-respondents.

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

MR.

JUSTICE MURPHY

317 U. S.

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The issue is whether respondents are entitled to certain
claimed credits against their undistributed profits tax for
the 1936 taxalble year' by virtue of § 26 (c) (2) of the
Revenue Act of 1936, 49 Stat. 1648.2
In each of these cases the taxpayer corporation contracted prior to May 1, 1936, by a written agreement, to
apply a percentage of its net earnings of a particular
calendar year to an indebtedness of the corporation; in
each case the agreement expressly provided only that the
payment of the specified percentage was to be made on
or before a certain date-April 1 in the case of the Ohio
Leather. Company and Warren Tool Corporation, and
April 15 in the case of the Strong Manufacturing Company-in the year following the calendar year during
'Taxpayer in No. 42 is also claiming a credit for the 1937 taxable
year.
2 SEc.

26. CREDITS OF CORPORATIONS.
In the case of a corporation the following credits shall be allowed to

the extent provided in the various sections imposing tax(c) Contracts Restricting Payment of Dividends.-

(2) Disposition of Profits of Taxable Year.-An amount equal to
the portion of the earnings and profits of the taxable year which is
required (by a provision of a written contract executed by the corporation prior to May 1, 1936, which provision expressly deals with
the disposition of earnings and profits of the taxable ycar) to be paid
within the taxable year in discharge of a debt, or to be irrevocab!y set
aside within the taxable year for the discharge of a debt; to the extent
that such amount has been so paid or set aside. For the purposes of
this paragraph, a requirement to pay or set aside an amount equal to
a percentage of earnings and profits shall be consiaiered a requirement
to pay or set aside such percentage of earnings and profits. As used
in this paragraph, the word "debt" does not include a debt incurred
after April 30, 1936.

HELVERING v. OHIO LEATHER CO.
102

105

Opinion of the Court.

which the net earnings arose.3 However, the specified
percentage was actually paid during the taxable year in
each case.- By reason of these contracts and payments,
taxpayers have sought to avail themselves of the credit
authorized by § 26 (c) (2), which relieves from the
tax
on undistributed profits, imposed by § 14 of the 1936 Act,
any profits which may not be distributed because of a
.contract requiring that a portion of earnings of the taxable year be paid or irrevocably set aside within the taxable year for the discharge of a debt. The Commissioner
of Internal Revenue determined that the credits claimed
should not be allowed, and assessed deficiencies in each
case. The Board of Tax Appeals overruled the CommisThe relevant contractual provisions in each case are as follows:

No. 40
By an indenture entered into on April 17, 1936, the Ohio Leather
Company covenanted to pay $25,600 annually to a trustee to create

a sinking fund for the security of its debentures, and* further covenanted that it would "on or before the next succeeding first day of
*April, pay an amount equal to ten percent (10%) of the net earnings
earned by the Company during the fiscal year ending on the thirtyfirst day of the next preceding Dcember, as such net'earnings are
defined hereinafter in the Article, which sums and amounts shall be
held by the Trustee for the security of all outstanding Debentures
until paid' out as hereinafter provided."
No. 41
By a note and mortgage agreement executed April 15, 1932, the
Strong Manufacturing Company bound itself to apply forty per centumn
of its net earnings upon its unpaid obligation. The mortgage provided:
"The Company covenants and agrees that uritil the principal and
interest of the note hereby secured shall have been fully paid and
beginning on January 1st, One Thousand nine hundred thirty-fout, the
Company will apply forty per centum. (40%) per annum of its net
earnings for any calendar year in payment of the interest accruing and
becoming payable upon such note in such year, and the balance of the
principalamount of such note unpaid prior to April 15th in such year;
provided, however, that the covenant herein made shall not be con-

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

317 U. S.

sioner, and the Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed.' We
granted certiorari because of an asserted conflict with
Antietam Hotel Corp. v. Commissioner, 123 F. 2d 274.1
Since § 26 (c) (2) grants a special credit in the nature of
a deduction, the taxpayer must sustain the burden of
showing cpmpliance with its exact terms. Helvering v.
Northwest Steel Mills, 311 U. S. 46, 49; White v. United
States, 305 U. S. 281, 292; New Colonial Ice Co. v. Helvering, 292 U. S.435, 440. We agree with the Commissioner
that taxpayers have not carried that burden.
Section 26 (c) (2) expressly sets up three specific conditions precedent with which a corporation devoting part
of its earnings to the payment of debts rather than the
payment of dividends must comply before it is entitled
to relief from the tax on undistributed profits-(1) there
must be a written contract executed by the corporation
strued to relieve the Company from the payment on April 15th in
such year of the installment specified for payment by the terms of
said note nor of the regular interest payments in such year, likewise
as specified in said note.
"Settlement for all amounts becoming payable under this provision
in excess of the principal and interest payments absolutely required
in the calendar year as of which such net earnings are determined
shall be made by the Company to the Bank not later than April 15th
of the succeeding year."
No. 42
On November 1, 1932, the Warren Tool Corporation executed a first
mortgage and deed of trust to secure a bond issue. The mortgage
contained a sinking fund provision which required the Corporation, on
and after April.1, 1935, to pay to the trustee "on or before the 1st day
of April of each year thereafter to and including April 1, 1942, a sum
of money equal to Twenty-five Per Cent (25%) of its net earnings for
the calendar year next preceding."
4An opinion was written only in Commissioner v. Strong Mfg. Co.,
124 F. 2d 360. The other two cases were per curiam affirmances on
the authority of that opinion. 124 F. 2d 397.
Compare Helvering v. Moloney Electric Co., 120 F. 2d 617, 621.

HELVERING v. OHIO LEATHER CO.
102

Opinion of the Court.

prior to May 1, 1936; (2) this contract must contain a
provision expressly dealing with the disposition of earnings and profits of the taxable year; and (3) this contract must contain a provision requiring that a portion of
such earnings and pyofits either (a) "be paid within the
taxable year in discharge of a debt," or (b) "be irrevocably
set aside within the taxable year for the discharge of a
debt." A taxpayer whose contract satisfies each of these
three requirements is entitled to a credit to the extent of
the amount which has been so paid or irrevocably set
aside.
While taxpayers have met the first two statutory
requirements-the written contracts antedate May 1, 1936,
and contain provisions expressly dealing with the disposition of earnings for the taxable year-, they have not
met the third one.' The contracts clearly contain no provision requiring the payment of earnings "within the
taxable year in discharge of a debt." Nor do they, contrary to taxpayers' assertion, require the irrevocable setting aside of earnings "within the taxable year for the
discharge of a debt," within the meaning of § 26 (c) .(2).
The contracts are wholly silent in respect of any setting
aside; they do not in terms require taxpayers to set aside
the amount due, nor do they direct any segregation or
physical retention whatsoever. The only requirement
is that taxpayers pay on or before a date after the close of
the taxable year. This is not enough. Until that date
taxpayers were free to use the specified percentages as they
pleased, so far as the agreements were concerned. That
prudent business judgment, or the possibility of fiduciary
liability imposed by operation of law might have con6 This

holding makes it unnecessary to consider the Commissioner's

contention that the Strong Manufacturing Company did not meet the
second requirement as to $5,000 of the $46,500 paid in 1936, because
-it was' obligated to pay that sum by April 15, 1937, even in the event
that there were no earnings in 1936.

108

OCTOBER TERM, 1042.
Opinion of the Court.

317 U. S.

strained taxpayers to refrain from using these percentages
and actually to set them aside is immaterial; such setting
aside was not required by the terms of the written contracts, and therefore did not satisfy § 26 (c) (2). Cf.
Helvering v. Northwest Steel Mills, 311 U. S. 46, 52.
Likewise, the fact that taxpayers actually irrevocably set
the funds aside by anticipatory payments within the taxable year is of no moment, because these payments were
voluntary and not pursuant to the command of the
agreements.
That Congress did not intend that the statutory condition of an irrevocable setting aside would be satisfied by a
contract which, without more, merely requires that a percentage of earnings of the taxable year be paid in some
future year for the discharge of a debt, is evident, because
such a construction reduces the alternative condition of
§ 26 (c) (2), relating to actual payment within the taxable
year, to a meaningless superfluity. The date specified
for payment would become immaterial for all purposes if
the mere requirement by contract of future payment out
of earnings in a given year automatically entails an
"irrevocable setting aside" within that' year.
Taxpayers here place great emphasis upon the different
prepositions used in the alternative phrases-"to be paid
within the taxable year in discharge of a debt, or to be
irrevocably set aside within the taxable year for the dischatge of a debt"-to show that payment may be made
after the taxable year compatibly with § 26 (c) (2).
True enough, payment can be postponed to a future year
and a credit allowed if, but only if, the contract directing
such future payments requires, in terms, the irrevocable
setting aside within the taxable year of those future 'payments. The instant contracts do not so provide.
Respondents, the Ohio Leather Company and Warren
Tool Corporation, contend that because they were on
an accrual basis of accounting, they were entitled to the

HELVERING v. OHIO LEATHER CO.
102

Opinion of the Court.

credit by virtue of § 43,7 which states that it is to be disregarded in computing the credit provided by § 27 and
makes no statement with regard to § 26. The contention
is without merit because principles of accrual accounting
have no bearing on the question of whether a contract in
terms requires a payment or an irrevocable setting aside
within the taxable year. The question here is not whether
taxpayers made payment, either on a cash or an accrual
basis, within the taxable year, but whether their contracts
required them to pay or irrevocably set aside within the
taxable year.
Taxpayers insist that it would be unreasonable to hold
that only contracts expressly requiring payment or an
irrevocable setting aside of a percentage of earnings within
the taxable year satisfy § 26 (c) (2), because many corporations 'are unable to determine their earnings until
after the close of their fiscal year, and consequently their
contracts disposing of a percentage of earnings in satisfaction of debt customarily allow some short period after
the close, of the year, before payment is required. The
legislative history of the 1936 Act reveals that Congress
was conversant with the problem of computing earnings
before the end of the taxable year, in connection with
dividend payments, but declined to act.8 Corporations
7 "SEc. 43. PERIOD FOR WHICH DEDUCTIONS

AND

CREDITS TAKEN.

"The deductions and credits (other than the dividends paid credit
provided in section 27) provided for in this title shall be taken for the
taxable year in which 'paid or accrued' or 'paid or incurred,' dependent
upon the method of accounting upon the basis of which the net income
is computed,
8 The original House bill (H. R. 12395, 74th Cong., 2d Sess., introduced at 80 Cong. Rec. 5978) provided for the use of the "dividend
year" in computing undistributed net income under § 13 and dividend
credit under § 15. Section 27 defined "dividend year" as the period
beginning on the 15th day of the third month after the day before the
beginning of the-taxable year, and ending on the 14th day of the third
month after the-close of the taxable year. Thus, where the calendar

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

317 TT. S.

with oral contracts, or written contracts executed after
May 1, 1936, dealing with the disposition of profits in
satisfaction of debts, also probably think § 26 (c) (2) is a
most unreasonable statute. But arguments urging the
broadening of a tax deduction statute beyond its plain
meaning to avoid harsh results are more properly addressed to Congress than to the courts. White v. United
States, 305 U. S. 281, 292.'
Finally, taxpayers contend that the legislative history
of § 26 (c) (2) supports the view that their contracts are
covered by that section. An examination of the entire
legislative background of, the undistributed profits tax
demonstrates, contrary to taxpayers' contentions, that
Congress intended the tax to be imposed primarily upon
income not distributed in the form of dividends, rather
than only upon corporate income which was not distributed at all, and accordingly meant to limit severely
credits for a corporation's payment of debts and precisely
to define the area in which taxpayers were to be entitled
to the credit. Thus, while the original House bill contained complicated provisions affording some relief to corporations with deficits, or bontractually obligated either
to pay debts or not to pqy dividends, the Senate Finance
year and the taxable year coincided, the "dividend year" would cover
the period from March 15 of the taxable year to March 14 of the following year. Congressman Hill, chairman of the subcommittee of the
House Ways and Means Committee, explained that the "dividend year"
was designed to allow corporations time to cast up their accounts after
the close of the taxable year and then determine what dividends should
be distributed. 80 Cong. Rec. 6005. Nevertheless, Congressman Hill
later offered, and the House adopted, a committee amendment substituting the "taxable year" for the "dividend year." 80 Cong. Rec.
6308. See also 80 Cong. Rec. 10265.
9 Appeals to Congress because of the limited scope of § 26 (c) (2)
were successful in 1938. Section 27 (a) (4) of the Revenue Act of 1938
allows a credit without reference to the particular terms or requirements
of the indebtedness. See H. Rep. No. 1860, 75th Cong., 3d Sess., p. 4.

WICKARD v. FILBURN.
102

Syllabus.

Committee struck them all out, substituting only a provision dealing with a credit for contractual prohibitions
against the payment of dividends. ° An amendment
offered from the Senate floor, giving a broad credit for all
portions of adjusted net income used to purchase or replace
machinery, equipment, etc., or "expended or applied during the taxable year for the liquidation, payment, or
reduction of the principal of any bona-fide indebtedness
outstanding at the date of enactment of this Act," was
rejected." The much narrower amendment which
became § 26 (c) (2) was then offered, with little explanation other than that it was intended to supplement the
credit for contractual prohibition against dividend pay-

ments, the provision which became § 26 (c)

(1).12

We conclude that the judgments below were erroneous.
Accordingly they are reversed, and the causes remanded
with -directions to uphold the determination of the
Commissioner.
Reversed.
WICKARD, SECRETARY, OF AGRICULTURE,
ET AL. v. FILBURN.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF OHIO.

No. 59. Argued May 4, 1942. Reargued October 13, 1942.-Decided
November 9, 1942.
1. Pending a referendum vote of farmers upon Wheat quotas proclaimed by the Secretary of Agriculture under the Agricultural Adjustment Act of 1938, the Secretary made a radio address in which
he advocated approval of the quotas and called attention to the
recent enactment by Congress of the amendatory act, later approved
10 This legislative history is discussed in Helvering v. Northwest

Steel Mills, 311 U. S.46, 50.
1180 Cong. Rec. 9055, 9070, 74th Cong., 2d Sess.
12 80 Cong, ]ee. 9071, 74th Cong., 2d Sess.

