OCTOBER TERM, 1942.

338

Statement of the Case.

317 U.S.

Lerner Stores Co., 314 U. S. 463, 468. Even if discriminatory legislation may be so arbitrary and injurious in
character as to violate the due process -clause of the Fifth
Amendment, see Steward Machine Co. v. Davis, supra,
585; Currin v. Wallace, 306 U. S. 1, 13, no such case is
presented here.
For reasons already indicated we think there is adequate
basis for the distinction made by the Statute between
innocent purchasers of property which passes at the decedent's death'and those of property which he conveyed in
his lifetime in anticipation of death. As we have pointed
out, the estate tax status of property passing at decedent's
death is more readily ascertained than that bf property
which he has conveyed away in his lifetime and which so
far as normal probate and tax proceedings are concerned
would not appear to be related to his estate or taxable as
a part of it. We do not find in such a classification any
basis for saying that the discrimination in the statute is
so arbitrary as to violate due process.
Affirmed.
MR. JuSTICE MURPHY

took no part in the consideration

or decision of this case.

MICHIGAN
CERTIORARI

TO

ET AL.

v. UNITED STATES.

'IHE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SIXTH CIRCUIT.

No. 214. Argued December 9, 10,1942.-Decided January 4, 1943
A federal tax lien on private real estate, securing a federal estate tax,
takes precedence over later liens securing state taxes. P. 340.
127 F. 2d 64, affirmed.

CERTIORARI, post, p. 607, to review a judgment affirming

a-judgment of the District Court, 41 F. Supp. 41, enforcing a federal estate tax lien.

MICHIGAN v. UNITED STATES.
338

339

Opinion of the. Court.

Mr. John H. Witherspoon, with whom Messrs. Herbert
J. Rushton, Attorney General of Michigan, Daniel J.
O'Hara, Assistant Attorney General, James H. Lee, William E. Dowling, and Samuel Brezner were on the brief,
for petitioners.
Mr. J. Louis Monarch, with whom Solicitor General
Fahy, Assistant Attorney General Clark, and Messrs.
Sewall Key, Alvin J. Rockwell, and Valentine Brookes
were on the brief, for the United States.
* Messrs. Francis P. Burns and Charles S. Rhyne filed a
brief on behalf of the National Institute of Municipal Law
Officers, as amicus curiae, urging reversal.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE STONE delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This is a companion case to Detroit Bank v. United
States, ante, p. 329. It involves the lien for estate taxes
asserted by the Government and considered in our opinion
in that case.
Petitioners, the City of Detroit, the County of Wayne,
and the State of Michigan, assert liens for city, county and
state taxes on the real estate in question, accruing subsequent to the federal estate tax lien. As defendants in the
suit brought by the Government to foreclose the lien, they,
attack it on all the grounds considered and rejected in our
opinion in the Detroit Bank case. They also contend that
the state liens are given superiority over the federal lien
by virtue of state statutes. Section 3429 of the Compiled
Laws of Michigan, 1929, as amended by Act No. 38 of the
Extra Session of 1934, declares that taxes "shall become a
lien upon such real property" on specified dates following
their assessment and, as construed by petitioners, states
that they shall be a "first lien, prior, superior, and paramount." Section 3746 authorizes the filing of notice of
liens as provided in R. S. § 3186, in the offices of registers

340

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

317 U. S.

of deeds in the counties of Michigan. Petitioners contend
that these and other statutory provisions as construed by
Michigan courts give superiority to state tax liens over
other unrecorded liens, including the present estate tax lien
of the federal Government.
We do not stop to inquire whether this construction of
the state statutes is the correct one, for we think the argument ignores the effect of a lien for federal taxes under the
supremacy clause of the Constitution. The establishment
of a tax lien by Congress is an exercise of its constitutional
power "to lay and collect taxes." Article I, § 8 of the Constitution. United States v. Snyder, 149 U. S. 210. And
laws of Congress enacted pursuant to the Constitution are
by Article VI of the Constitution declared to be "the supreme Law of the Land; and the Judges in every State
shall be bound thereby, any Thing in the Constitution or
Laws of any State to the Contrary notwithstanding."
"It is of the very nature and essence of a lien, that no,.
matter into whose hands.the property'goes, it passes cum
onere." Burton v. Smith, 13 Pet. 464, 483; Rankin v.
Scott, 12 Wheat. 177, 179; Howard v. Railway Co., 101
U. S. 837, 845. Hence it is not debatable that a tax lien
imposed by a law of Congress, as we have held the present
lien is imposed, cannot, without the consent of Congress,
be displaced by later liens imposed by authority..of any
state law or judicial decision. United States v. Snyder,
supra;, United States v. Greenville, 118 F. 2d 963.
Similarly we held tha't the priority of payment commanded
by R. S. § 3466 could not be set aside by state legislation.
United States v. Texas, 314 U. S. 480, 486; Spokane County
v. United States, 279 U. S. 80; New York v. Maclay, 288
U. S. 299.;cf. Missouri v. Ross, 299 U. S. 72.:
As the federal lien with which we are here concerned
attuihed to private property prior to the acquisition of

PARKER v. BROWN.
338

Syllabus.

any interest in that property by the state, we need not
consider the extent to which Congress may give, or intended by.§ 315 (a) to give, priority to a federal lien over a
previously' perfected state lien. Compare New York v.
Maclay, supra, 292; Spokane County v. United' States,
supra, 95; United States v. Texas, supra,484--6.
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE MURPHY took no part in the consideration
or decision of this case.

PARKER, DIRECTOR OF AGRICULTURE, ET AL. V.
BROWN.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA.
'No. 46.

Argued May 5, 1949 (No. 1040, 1941 Term). Reargued
October 12, 13, 1942.-Decided January 4, 1943.

1. A suit in a federal court to enjoin enforcement of a state agricultural
proration program, in which the validity of the program is challenged as in conflict with federal antitrust laws, is a suit "arising
under" a "law regulating commerce" and is maintainable without
regard to the amount in controversy. 28 U. S. C. § 41 (1), (8).
P. 349.
2. A majority of the CoUrt are of opinion that this suit to enjoin enforcement of a marketing plan adopted under the California Agricultural Prorate Act' is within the equity jurisdiction of the district
court, since the complaint alleges and the evidence shows threatened
irreparable injury to the complainant's business and threatened
prosecutions by reason of his having marketed his crop under the
protection of the district court's injunction. P. 349.
3. A prorate marketing program under the California Agricultural
Prorate Act, adopted by the State for regulating the handling, disposition, and prices of raisins produced in California, a large part of.
which go into interstate and. foreign commerce, held not within the
intended scope of, and not a violation of, the.Sherman Act. P. 350.

