ALBIN v. COWING JOINT CO.
Opinion of the Court.

ALBIN v. COWING PRESSURE RELIEVIN G

JOINT CO.

ET AL.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS
FOR THE SEVENTH CIRCUIT.

No. 234. Submitted November 20, 1942.-Decided December 7, 1942.
An order of the bankruptcy court vacating an earlier order restraining the prosecution by the alleged bankrupt of a suit in a state court,
in which suit, it was alleged, counterclaims in excess of the amount
claimed by the alleged bankrupt were filed, is, under ยง 24 (a) of the
Chandler Act, appealable to the Circuit Court of Appeals. P. 212.
Reversed.

CERTIORARI, post, p. 608, to review a decree dismissing
for lack of jurisdiction an appeal from an interlocutory
order, of the bankruptcy court dissolving a restraining
order.

Mr. Lewis E. Pennish submitted for petitioner.
Mr. Charles Aaron submitted for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS delivered the opinion of the

Court.
Petitioner filed an involuntary petition in bankruptcy
against respondent, who answered denying the allegations
of the petition. Prior to adjudication, the bankruptcy
court entered an ex parte order, on petition of the same
creditor, restraining the prosecution by respondent or its
agents of a suit in the Illinois state courts on a claim
against one Fisher, in which suit, it was alleged, Fisher
had filed counterclaims which would exceed the amount
of the respondent's claim. Thereafter, on petition of respondent and after notice to all parties and a hearing,
the bankruptcy court vacated the restraining order. This
likewise was, so far as appears, prior to an adjudication.

212

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

317 U. S.

Petitioner appealed. 'The Circuit Court of Appeals dismissed the appeal "for lack of jurisdiction." The case is
here on certiorari.
Sec. 24 (a) of the Chandler Act (52 Stat.854, 11 U. S. C.
ยง 47) gives the Circuit Courts of Appeals appellate jurisdiction from courts of bankruptcy "in proceedings in
bankruptcy, either interlocutory or final." An order of
the bankruptcy court vacating a restraining order against
prosecution of a suit in a state court is, like a stay order
itself, a proceeding in bankruptcy. See Harrison Securities Co. v. Spinks Realty Co., 92 F. 2d 904; Taylor v.
Voss, 271 U. S. 176, 181. The amendments to ยง 24 (a)
made by the Chandler Act practically abolished the distinction between appeals as of right and by leave. S. Rep.
No. 1916, 75th Cong., 3d Sess., p. 4. And see Dickinson
Industrial Site v. Cowan, 309 U. S.382, 385-388. Whatever may still be the possible limitations on the reviewability of interlocutory orders (see In re Hotel Governor
Clinton, 107 F. 2d 398; FederalLand Bank v. Hansen, 113
F. 2d 82, 84-85), no reason appears why this one cannot
or should not be reviewed. Nor does it appear from the
record which is before us that the issue is moot. We
intimate no opinion on the merits. The judgment is reversed and the cause remanded to the Circuit Court of
Appeals for proceedings in conformity with this opinion.
Reversed.

