OCTOBER TERM, 1942.

78

Syllabus.

317 U. S.

phasized by the Government's appearance in behalf of
petitioner in this case."
The consequence of this legislative and administrative
policy is a clear authorization to resident enemy aliens to
proceed in all courts until administrative or legislative
action is taken to exclude them. Were this not true, contractual promises made to them by individuals, as well as
promises held out to them under our laws, would become
no more than teasing illusions. The doors of our courts
have not been shut to peaceable law-abiding aliens seeking
to enforce rights growing out of legal occupations. Let
the writ issue.
MARINE HARBOR PROPERTIES, INC. v. MANU-

FACTURERS TRUST CO., TRUSTEE,

Er AL.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 24.

Argued October 16, 19, 1942.-Decided November 9, 1942.

1. In exercise of the federal bankruptcy power, Congress may exclude
every competing or conflicting proceeding in state or federal tribunals. P. 83.
2. Although the pendency of a prior proceeding in a state or federal
court does not bar the filing of A.petition under Chapter X of the
14 The determination by Congress and the Executive not to interfere

with the rights of resident enemy aliens to proceed in the courts marks
a choice of remedies rather than a waiver of protection. The Government has an elaborate protective program. Under the Alien Enemy
Act, 50 U. S. C. § 21, the President has ordered the internment of
aliens, has instituted a system of identification, and has regulated
travel. Under the First War Powers Act, 50 U. S. C. Supp. I, 1940
ed. Appendix, § 5 (b), and various executive orders he has controlled
the funds of resident enemy aliens. Many other statutes make a composite pattern which Congress has apparently thought adequate for
the control of this problem. See, e. g., the controls on alien ownership
of land in the.territories, 8 U. S. C. Chap. 5.

MARINE PROPERTIES v. TRUST CO.

79

Syllabus.

78

Bankruptcy Act, the bankruptcy court may not in such case approve
the petition unless it appears that the interests of creditors and
stockholders would not be best subserved in the prior proceeding.
P. 83.
3. The party filing a petition under Ch. X while a prior proceeding is
pending in a state or federal court has the burden of showing that
the interests of creditors and stockholders would not be best subserved in the prior proceeding. P. 83.
4. When a prior proceeding is pending, a petitioner's showing of "need
for relief" under Ch. X, which § 130 (7) requires that every petition contain, must demonstrate that at least in some substantial particular the benefits, advantages, or protection which Ch. X affords to
creditors or stockholders are unavailable in the prior proceeding.
P. 84.

5. That a debtor was seeking to escape the jurisdiction of a state court
to which it had theretofore voluntarily submitted, is immaterial in
the determination of whether its petition under Ch. X was filed in
"good faith" within the meaning of § 146 (4). P. 84.
6. The issue as to the adequacy of the prior proceedings as compared
with 'Ch. X is the same whether the petition is filed by the debtor
or by creditors. P. 85.
7. Whether filed by the debtor or by others, all petitions under Ch. X
must show the "need for relief" (§§ 130-131); and the bankruptcy
court must be satisfied in every case that the petition has been filed
in "good faith" (§§ 141-144). P. 85.
8. In this case, wherein prior proceedings were pending in a state court,
and the value of the property of the debtor was less than the amount
of a first mortgage indebtedness thereon, held that the debtor, petitioning under Ch. X, bad not sustained the burden which was upon
it of showing that the interests of creditors and stockholders would
not be best subserved in the prior proceedings in the state court.
P. 85.
(a) The rule of full priority of creditors over stockholders, applied
in § 77B proceedings, obtains also in proceedings under Ch. X.
P. 85.
(b) It did not sufficiently appear in this case that the stockholders
were willing to make a fresh contribution in money or in money's
worth in return for a participation reasonably equivalent to their
contribution. P. 85.
. (c) It did not appc.,r that continuation of the state proceedings
would deny junior creditors any benefits which Ch. X would afford

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Counsel for Parties.

317 U. S.

them. The full priority rule which obtains under Ch. X protects
the rights of senior creditors against dilution either by junior
creditors or by equity interests. P. 86.
(d) It did not sufficiently appear in this case that a state
foreclosure proceeding, instituted for and on behalf of first mortgage
creditors exclusively, was inadequate, measured by Ch. X standards,
to protect their interests. P. 87.
125 F. 2d 296, affirmed.
CERTIORARI, 315 U. S. 794, to review the reversal of an
order of the District Court, 41 F. Supp. 814, approving a
petition under Chapter X of the Bankruptcy Act filed by
a debtor corporation.
Mr. Arthur E. Friedlandfor petitioner.
Mr. Chester T. Lane, with whom Solicitor General
Fahy and Messrs. RichardS. Salant, John F. Davis, Homer
Kripke, Morton E. Yohalem, George Zolotar, and Mortimer Weinbach were on the brief, for the Securities and
Exchange Commission; and Mr. Charles E. Hughes, Jr.,
with whom Mr. Curtiss E. Frank was on the brief, for
the Manufacturers Trust Co., Trustee, respondents.
By special leave of Court, Mr. Benjamin Heffner,
Assistant Attorney General of New York, with whom
Messrs. John J. Bennett, Jr., Attorney General, Henry
Epstein, Solicitor General John F. X. McGohey, Assistant
Attorney General, and Mr. Edward F. Keenan were on
the brief, for the State of New York, as amicus curiae,
urging affirmance.
Messrs. Martin A. Schenck, Samuel Kramer, Carl J.
Austrian, Clarence F. Corner, and George J. Gillespie
filed a brief on behalf of certain charitable institutions, as
amici curiae, urging affirmance.

MARINE PROPERTIES v. TRUST CO.
78

Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The question in this case is whether the Circuit Court of
Appeals was in error in holding that a debtor's petition
filed by petitioner under Ch. X of the Bankruptcy Act (52
Stat. 883, 11 U. S. C. § 501) was not filed in "good faith."
The debtor's sole asset is an apartment building in New
York City which is subject to a first mortgage of $370,000.
This mortgage is held by the respondent, Manufacturers
Trust Co. (successor to The Mortgage Corporation of New
York), as trustee for certificate holders. There are also
junior mortgages and other claims, including an unspecified amount of unsecured indebtedness. Concededly the
property of the debtor is worth less than the amount of
the first mortgage debt. The first mortgage was originally created in 1931 and was held by Title Guarantee and
Trust Co., which issued and sold to the public certificates
of participation, guaranteed as to principal and interest
by Bond and Mortgage Guarantee Co. The latter company became involved in financial difficulties in 1933 and
was taken over by the Superintendent of Insurance of
New York for rehabilitation.1 Pursuant to provisions of
the Schackno Act (N. Y. Laws 1933, c. 745), the Superintendent of Insurance promulgated, in 1934, a plan for the
readjustment of the rights of the certificate holders in the
mortgage, by which the mortgage was extended to December 1, 1937 and the interest reduced. Over two-thirds of
the certificate holders consented to the plan, and the
debtor joined in the extension agreement. The New York
court approved it. In 1935 the New York Mortgage
Commission succeeded the Superintendent of Insurance
.s administrator of certificated bonds and mortgages.
'See generally, Report of Commissioner George W. Alger to the
Governor of the State of New York, Oct. 5, 1934.
503873--43-13

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

317 U. S.

N. Y. Laws 1935, c. 19, c. 290. That Commission,' in 1938,
proposed the designation of the Mortgage Corporation
of New York as trustee of the bond and mortgage in the
instant case, tinder a declaration of trust granting the
trustee broad and comprehensive powers. This proposal
was consented to by over two-thirds of the certificate holders and approved by the New York court. The order of
the court provided "that this Court, having assumed jurisdiction of this proceeding, shall retain jurisdiction hereof
until the complete liquidation of the Trust Estate and the
termination of the trust; and the Trustee, or any other
interested party herein, may apply at the foot of this
Final Order upon such notice as the Court may direct for
such other and further relief as to the Court may seem
just and proper."
The principal of the first mortgage was not paid at its
extended maturity in 1937. But until April 1, 1941, the
debtor made all' other payments due under the 1934 extension agreement. At that time the debtor defaulted in
payment of interest and taxes. Both before and after that
default the debtor and the trustee negotiated for an
agreement of further extension and modification. But no
agreement between them could be reached and no further
proposal for a modification or extension of the mortgage
was presented to the state court or to the certificate holders.
On May 1, 1941, the trustee instituted foreclosure proceedings in the state court A receiver was appointed, who
took possession.' In September 1941 the debtor filed its
voluntary petition under Ch. X of the Bankruptcy Act.
An ex parte order approving the petition and appointing
trustees was obtained. Shortly thereafter the mortgage
trustee moved to vacate that order and to dismiss the
debtor's petition on the ground that it was not filed in
On the activities of the Commission, see Annual Report 1939, N. Y.
Leg. Doc., No. 94,
2

MARINE PROPERTIES v. TRUST CO.
78

Opinion of the Court.

"good faith." That motion was denied. 41 F. Supp. 814.
The Circuit Court of Appeals reversed, one judge dissenting, 125 F. 2d 296. We granted the petition for certiorari
because of the importance in the adminigtration of the
Bankruptcy Act of the problems involved.
Every petition under Ch. X must state, inter alia, "the
specific facts showing the need for relief under this chapter." § 130 (7). Sec. 141 provides that the judge shall
enter an order approving a debtor's petition "if satisfied
that it complies with the requirements of this chapter and
has been filed in good faith, or dismissing it if not so satisfied." Sec. 146 defines "good faith" and provides in part:
"Without limiting the generality of the meaning of the
term 'good faith', a petition shall be deemed not to be filed
in good faith if"(4) a prior proceeding is pending in any court and it
appears that the interests of creditors atid stockholders
would be best subserved in such prior proceeding."
The federal bankruptcy power is, of course, paramount
and supreme and may be so exercised by Congress as to
exclude every competing or conflicting proceeding in state
or federal tribunals. Kalb v. Feuerstein, 308 U. S.433.
In fashioning Ch. X Congress, however, did not go so far.
While the pendency of prior proceedings in state or federal courts does not bar the filing of a petition under Ch. X
(§ 256), Congress in effect directed the bankruptcy courts
not to approve petitions under Ch. X in such cases unless
it appeared that the interests of creditors and stockholders
would not be best subserved in the prior proceedings. And
it put the burden on the petitioner to make that showing.
The Report of the House Judiciary Committee states that
the purpose of § 146 (4) was.to "stop the removal of prior
pending cases from other courts where the interests of
creditors and stockholders would be better served by retaining and continuing the prior proceedings." H. Rep.

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

317 U. S.

No. 1409, 75th Cong., 1st Sess., p. 42. Sec. 146 represents
a codification of some of the interpretations which the
courts had given the words "good faith'. in proceedings
under § 77B. S. Rep. No. 1916, 75th Cong., 3d Sess., p. 27.
Thus the necessity of showing "a need for the machinery
of 77B as an essential in accomplishing a reorganization
because other procedures were either unavailable or more
cumbersome and expensive" led courts to find an absence
of "good faith," in the sense that no "need for relief" had
been established, where 77B was sought to be employed
by a debtor as "a mechanism for preserving equities at the
expense of creditors." See Report on the Study and Investigation of the Work, Activities, Personnel and Functions of Protective and Reorganization Committees,
Securities and Exchange Commission, Pt. VIII, p. 94
(1940).
In view of that history, it seems clear that, when a prior
proceeding is pending, a petitioner's showing of "need for
relief" under Ch. X, required to be contained in every
petition by the express provisions of § 130 (7), must
demonstrate that at least in some substantial particular
the prior proceedings withhold or deny creditors or stockholders benefits, advantages, or protection which Ch. X
affords. In absence of such a showing, the "need for relief"
has not been established and the District Court is not
enabled to make an informed judgment on the "good faith"
issue.
The Circuit Court of Appeals in this case, as in Brooklyn
Trust Co. v. Rembaugh, 110 F. 2d 838, held that the debtor's petition was not filed in "good faith," since it was
seeking to escape the jurisdiction of the state court to
which it had voluntarily submitted itself. But that is
not the test which Congress has provided in § 146 (4).
That provision requires the bankruptcy court to inquire
whether "the interests of creditors and stockholders"
would be better subserved in the prior proceedings or

MARINE PROPERTIES v. TRUST CO.
78

Opinion of the Court.

under Ch. X. That the desire of the petitioner to escape
the prior proceedings is immaterial to that inquiry is
supported not only by the language of § 146 (4) but also
by the fact that § 256 expressly sanctions the filing of
petitions under Ch. X although prior proceedings are
pending. To disqualify a petitioner under Ch. X merely
because he had in some way participated in the prior proceeding would effect a substantial impairment of § 146 (4),
since it would be the exception rather than the rule where
both the debtor ard the creditors had not taken some
part in the prior proceedings. Furthermore, the issue
as to the adequacy of the prior proceedings as compared
with Ch. X is the same whether the petition is filed by
creditors or by the debtor. All petitions, whether filed
by the debtor or by others, must show the "need for relief"
(§§ 130-131); and in every case the bankruptcy court
must be satisfied that the petition has been filed in "good
faith." §§ 141-144.
We are of the opinion, however, that the debtor did not
sustain the burden which the federal statute places on a
petitioner. So far as the "interests" of stockholders are
concerned, it is not apparent that the equity owners would
be denied in the state foreclosure proceedings benefits,
advantages, or protection which Ch. X would afford them.
Admittedly the property is worth less than the amount
of the first mortgage indebtedness. Under the rule of
Northern Pacific Ry. Co. v. Boyd, 228 U. S. 482, and
Case v. Los Angeles Lumber Products Co., 308 U. S. 106,
a plan of reorganization would not be fair and equitable
which in such circumstances admitted the stockholders to
participation, unless the stockholders made a fresh contribution in money or in money's worth, in return for
"a participati6n reasonably equivalent to their contribution." Case v. Los Angeles Lumber Products Co., supra,
p. 121. That rule obtains under Ch. X as'well as under its
predecessor, § 77B. There is no suggestion in the record

86

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

317 U. S.

that the equity owners desire to make a contribution on
that basis, and that, unless they are allowed to do it
ur)der Ch. X, they will be barred. All that the record
shows is an, affidavit by one Silverman that, "if the creditors desire liquidation of their claims on the basis of present actual values rather than on the face amount of their
claims," $50,000 in cash could be raised. Ch. X would not
permit such a dilution of creditors' interests. Hence, such
a showing does not establish on behalf of the stockholders
that "need for relief" which § 130 (7), read in light of § 146
(4), requires. In fact, the approval of the petition on
that ground would be giving the equity owners a nuisance
value wholly unjustified by the reorganization standards
which are incorporated into Ch. X.
The District Court, however, concluded that it was in
the interests of all the creditors that the Ch. X -petition
be approved. It noted that the market value of the certificates was far under par and that there were lienors and
creditors other than the first mortgage certificate holders,
with which the bankruptcy court, but not the state court,
could deal. If there were a showing, for example, that
the property was worth more than the amount of first
mortgage indebtedness and it appeared that that excess
value would be lost to the junior interests in the state
proceedings, or that the state proceedings were less adequate by reorganization standards than the bankruptcy
court to protect such interests, approval of the petition
clearly would be justified whether filed by the debtor or
by creditors. But no such showing was made. Hence it
was not established that continuation of the state proceedings would deny the junior creditors any benefits
which Ch. X would afford them. Approval of the petition on the grounds advanced by the District Court could
be made only under the composition theory of reorganization, which Qh. X, like § 77B, rejected in favor of the full
priority rule of the Boyd case. See Case v. Los Angeles

MARINE PROPERTIES v. TRUST CO.
78

Opinion of the Court.

Lumber Products Co., supra, p. 119, n. 14. That rule
protects the rights of senior creditors against dilution
either by junior creditors or by equity interests. See id.,
p. 123; Consolidated Rock Products Co. v. Du Bois, 312
U. S.510, 525-526, 529-530.
There remains the contention that it was in the "interests" of the certificate holders to have the proceedings
transferred to Ch. X. In this connection, much emphasis
is placed on numerous safeguards contained in Ch. X,
which this Court reviewed in Securities & Exchange Commission v. United States Realty & Imp. Co., 310 U. S.
434, 448-450. And it is asserted that comparable safeguards are wholly or largely lacking in proceedings under
the Schackno Act. Those considerations would be highly
relevant and persuasive if this were a case of the usual reorganization proceeding dealing with more than one class
of securities under the older procedures which Ch. X was
designed to improve and supplant. See Securities & Exchange Commission v. United States Realty & Imp. Co.,
supra, p. 448; H. Rep. No. 1409, 75th Cong., 1st Sess., pp.
37 et seq. Then the safeguards afforded by Ch. X would
have special significance in protecting the respective
classes of investors against improvident, unfair or inequitable adjustments, compromises, and settlements-steps which are basic to the reorganization process but
which in selfish hands led to much abuse. H. Rep. No.
1409, 75th Cong., 1st Sess., pp. 37 et seq. But here the
machinery of the state which is being used is the foreclosure proceeding, which, so far as appears, has been invoked
on behalf of the certificate holders alone. Presumptively,
the result of the foreclosure will be an appropriation
of the assets of the debtor for the benefit of the
certificate holders exclusively. There is no showing that
the foreclosure proceedings have been conducted in such
a way as to jeopardize the interests of the certificate holders contrary to the design of Ch. X. There is no showing

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Syllabus.

317 U. S.

that assets subject to the paymerit of the certificates are
being neglected. Thus it is not shown that the claim
against the guarantee company is not being pursued or
that its collection could better be handled in proceedings
under Ch. X. There is no showing that the machinery
employed or available in the state foreclosure proceeding
to safeguard and protect the interests of those creditors
after the sale is not comparable to that contained in Ch.
X for the consummation of plans which are not only fair
but feasible. § 221 (2). In view of the burden on a petitioner to make the showing required by § 130 (7) and
§ 146 (4); the bankruptcy court is not warranted in
assuming, without more, that a state foreclosure proceeding, instituted for and on behalf of the first mortgage
creditors exclusively, is inadequate, measured by Ch. X
standards, to protect their interests. The contrary course
would result in Ch. X'making greater inroads on prior
proceedings than § 130 (7) and § 146 (4) indicate was the
purpose.
Affirmed.
WARREN-BRADSHAW DRILLING CO. v. HALL,
AGENT, ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIFTH CIRCUIT.

No. 21.

Argued October 16, 1942.-Decided November 9, 1942.

1. The application of the Fair Labor Standards Act depends upon the

character of the activitiT of the eqplbyee. P. 90.
2. Employees seeking to recoyer overtime compensation and ]iquidated damages under § 16 (b) of the Fair Labor Standards Act,
held to have sustained the burdeif of proving that they were engaged
in the production of goods for.interstate commerce within the meaning of the Act. P. 90.
3. Members of a rotary drilling crew, engaged within a State, as employees of an independent contractor, in partially drilling oil wells

