EX PARTE KAWATO.
Syllabus.

61

In this case there were two consequences of the discovery that the Home could not be built as originally planned.
One was an alteration of specifications, which resulted in
a slight cut in respondent's outlay and in its compensation.
The other was the delay itself, and for this the time necessary to perform the contract was equitably adjusted by
extension, thereby relieving respondent of liquidated
damages which could otherwise have been imposed.
Under the terms of the contract, it is entitled to no more.
Reversed.
EX PARTE KUMEZO KAWATO.
ON PETITION FOR WRIT OF MANDAMUS.

No. 10, Original.

Argued October 12, 1942.-Decided November
9, 1942.

1. In an original proceeding in this Court upon a petition for a writ
of mandamus to compel the District Court to proceed with the trial
of a suit in admiralty, a contention that the writ should be denied
because the District Court, although it had ordered the abatement of the suit for the dration of the war solely on the ground
of the libelant's status as an alien enemy, could have dismissed the
libel on other grounds, particularly for claimed defects in the
allegations of the libel, is irrelevant; since, if the suit was erroneously
abated on the ground assigned, the libelant is entitled to have the
District Court proceed with the action and pass upon the sufficiency
of his allegations in an orderly way. P. 71.
2. Mandamus is the appropriate remedy where the District Court
has erroneously ordered the abatement, for the duration of the war,
of a suit in admiralty by a resident alien enemy. P. 71.
.3. The ancient rule of the common law barring suits by resident alien
enemies has survived only so far as necessary to prevent use of the
courts to accomplish a purpose which might hamper the war effort
or give aid to the enemy. P. 72.
4. The President not having made, under the Trading with the Enemy
Act, any declaration as to "alien enemies," a resident alien enemy-

70

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

317 U. S.

claiming wages and an allowance for maintenance and cure, arising
out of his lawful -employment as a seaman-is not barred from the
courts by § 7 of that Act. P. 75.
This conclusion is in accord with the legislative and administrative
policy. P. 77.
5. The Trading with the Enemy Act was not intended, without Presidential proclamation, to affect resident aliens. P. 76.
Writ issued.

On petition for a writ of mandamus (leave to file
granted, 316 U. S. 650) to compel the District Court to
proceed with the trial of a suit in admiralty by a resident
alien enemy.
Kumezo Kawato submitted pro se.
Mr. Lasher B. Gallagher argued the cause for Leon R.
Yankwich, Judge.
Solicitor General Fahy and Mr. Robert L. Stern filed
a brief on behalf of the United States, as amicus curiae, in
support of petitioner.
MR.JUSTICE BLACK delivered the opinion of the Court.
The petitioner, born in Japan, became a resident of the
United States in 1905. April 15, 1941, he filed a libel in
admiralty against the vessel Rally in the District Court for
the Southern District of California. He claimed wages
were due him for services as a seaman and fisherman on
the Rally, and sought an allowance for maintenance and
cure on allegations that he had sustained severe injuries
while engaged in the performance of his duties. Claimants of the vessel appeared and filed an answer on
grounds not here material, but later, on January 20, 1942,
moved to abate the action on the ground that petitioner,
by reason of the state of war then existing between Japan
and the United States, had become an enemy alien and
therefore had no "right to prosecute any action in any

EX PARTE KAWATO.
69

Opinion of the Court.

court of the United States during the pendency of said
war." The District Judge granted the motion. Petitioner sought mandamus in the Circuit Court of Appeals,
for the Ninth Circuit to compel the District Court to
vacate its judgment and proceed to trial of his action, but
his motion for leave to file was denied without opinion.
We granted leave to file in this Court, 316 U. S. 650,
and the cause was submitted on answer, briefs and oral
argument.
Although the court's order of abatement for the duration of the war rested solely on the ground of petitioner's
status as an alien enemy, it has been argued here that the
writ should be denied because the court could have dismissed .the bill on other grounds, particularly claimed
defects in the allegations of the libel. These contentions
are irrelevant here. Unless the action was properly abated
for the reasons set out in the motion and the court's order,
the petitioner is entitled to have the District Court proceed with his action and pass upon the sufficiency of his
allegations. This is an essential step in an orderly trial
leading to a final judgment from which an appeal will lie
to correct errors. If the court's order of abatement was
erroneous, mandamus is the appropriate remedy. 28 U.
S. C. 377; McClellan v. Carland, 217 U. S. 268, 279-282;
Ex parte Metropolitan Water Co., 220 U. S. 539, 546.
"Alien enemy" as applied to petitioner is at present but
the legal definition of his status because he was born in
Japan, with which we are at war. Nothing in this record
indicates, and we cannot assume, that he came to America
for any purpose different from that which prompted millions of others to seek our shores-a chance to make his
home and work in a free country, governed by just laws,
which promise equal protection to all who abide by them.
His suit invokes the protection of those laws through our
courts both to obtain payment of wages alleged to have
been promised him by American citizens for lawful work

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

317 U. S.

and reimbursement on account of damages suffered while
working for those citizens.
Petitioner contends that he has the right under the common law and treaties to proceed with his action, and that
this right is not limited by the statutes. In our view the
possibility of treaty rights, which has not been argued extensively, need not be considered. Applicable treaties are
ambiguous and should not be interpreted without more
care than is necessary in this case.'
There doubtless was a time when the common law of
England would have supported dismissal of petitioner's
action, but that time has long since passed. A number
of early English decisions, based on a group concept which
made little difference between friends and enemies barred
all aliens from the courts. This rule was gradually relaxed as to friendly aliens 2 until finally, in'Wells v. Williams, 1 Ld. Raym. 282 (1698), the court put the necessities of trade ahead of whatever advantages had been
argues that his case is covered by article 23 h of the
Annex to the IVth Hague Convention of 1907: "It is especially
prohibited . . . to declare abolished, suspended, or inadmissible in
a Court of law the rights and action of the nationals of the hostile
party." This clause, which was added to the convention of 1899 without substantial discussion either by the Delegates in General Assembly
or by the committee and sub-committee which dealt with it, III
Proceedings of the Hague Convention of 1907, 12, 107, 136, 240; and
I ibid. 83, was construed by an English Court to apply solely in
enemy areas occupied by a belligerent. Porter v. Freudenberg, [1915]
1 K. B. 857. The question has not been raised in the courts in this
country, but the English interpretation was repeated with approval by
Representative Montague of the Interstate Commerce Committee in
his address to the House when he presented to it the Trading with the
Enemy Act. 55 Cong. Rec. 4842 (1917).
2 According to Littleton, an alien might not sue in either a real or
personal action; but this rule was modified by Coke to bar such actions
only by alien enemies and to permit personal actions by alien friends.
See Coke on Littleton 129 b. Pollock and Maitland suggest that this
modification by Coke was "a bold treatment of a carefully worded
1Petitioner

EX PARTE KAWATO.
69

.73

Opinion of the Court.

imagined to exist in the old rule, and held that enemy
aliens in England under license from the Crown might
proceed in the courts. As applied ever since, alien enemies
residing in England have been permitted to maintain
actions, while those in the land of the enemy were not;
and this modern, humane principle has been applied even
when the alien was interned, as is petitioner here.'
Schaffenius v. Goldberg, [1916] 1 K. B. 284.
The original English common law rule, long ago abandoned there, was, from the leginning, objectionable here.
The policy of severity toward alien enemies was clearly
impossible for a country whose lifeblood came from an
immigrant stream. In the war of 1812, for example, many
persons born in England fought on the American side."
Harshness toward immigrants was inconsistent with that
national knowledge, present then as now, of the contributions made in peace and war by the millions of immigrants
who have learned to love the country of their adoption
more than the country of their birth.

Hence in 1813

text." 1 History of English Law, 2d ed., 459. The early law
treated all' aliens as a group. See the sub-titles of Pollock and Maitland's chapter, "The Sorts and Conditions of Men," some of which
are: The Knights, The Unfree, The Clergy, Aliens, The Jews, Women,
etc. Ibid., Chap. II. - For a summary of English views now largely
obsolete on alien standing in court, see Hansard, Law Relating to
Aliens, chap. 7 (1844). For a survey of the common law on inheritance
of land by aliens, see Techt v. Hughes, 229 N. Y. 222, 128 N. E. 185
(Cardozo, 1.).
3
Petitioner was interned some months after the court had abated
his action. The Government has filed a §upplemental brief stating
that it does not consider that this circumstance alters the position of
petitioner in respect to his privilege of access to the courts.
' One writer estimates that half of the 400 men on board the Constitution when it captured the Guerriere were seamen who had deserted
the British, and the ship United States was reported by its captain
to have no men on board who had not served with British warships.
Bradley, The United Empire Loyalists, 192; an. qee 3 McMaster, History of the United States, 242.

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

317 U. S.

Chief Justice Kent, in Clarke v. Morey, 10 Johns. 69, 72,
set the legal pattern which, with sporadic exceptions, has
since been followed.' The core of that decision he put
in these words: "A lawful residence implies protection;
and a capacity to sue and be sued. A contrary doctrine
would be repugnant to sound policy, no less than to justice
and humanity." 6 Thus the courts aligned their policy
w.ith that enjoined upon the President by Congress in
.1812, when it directed him to administer the laws controlling aliens in a manner that would be "consistent with the
public safety, and according to the dictates* of humanity
and national hospitality." 50 U. S. C. § 22.
In asking that the rights of resident aliens be abrogated
in their behalf, private litigants .ineffect seek to stand in
the position of government. But only the Government,
and not the private individual, is vested with the power
to protect all the people, including loyal aliens, from possible injury by disloyal aliens. If the public welfare demands that this alien shall not receive compensation for
his work or payment for his injuries received in the course
of his employment, the Government can make the decision
without allowing a windfall to these claimants. Even if
petitioner were a non-resident enemy alien, it might be
more appropriate to release the amount of his claim to the
For collection of cases, see 30 Georgetown L. J. 421; 28 Virginia
L. R. 429; 27 Yale L. J. 105; Huberich, Trading With The Enemy,
188 et seq.; Daimler Co. v. Continental Tyre Co., Anno. Cas. 1917 C,
170, 204; Petition of Bernheimer,130 F. 2d-396; and for English cases,

McNair, Legal Effects of War.

I ,

,'Story was one of the few commeittors to approve any part of
the early common law rule. He acceptid, so much of that doctrine as
required enemy aliens entitled to relief in the courts to have entered the
country under safe conduct or license. Story on'Civil Pleadings, p. 10;
Story's Equity Pleadings, § 51-54, and particularly § 724. This requirement was reduced to legal fiction in Clarke v. Morey, supra,at 72,

when Chief Justice Kent held that "The license is implied by law and
the usage of nations."

EX PARTE KAWATO.
60

Opinion of the Court.

Alien Property Custodian rather than to the claimants;
and this is precisely what was done in Birge-Forbes Co. v.
Heye, 251 U. S. 317, 323, in which this Court said that
the sole objection to giving judgment for an alien enemy
"goes only so far as it would give aid and comfort to the
other side." The ancient rule against suits by resident
alien enemies has survived only so far as necessary to prevent use of the courts to accomplish a purpose which might
hamnper our own war efforts or give aid to the enemy.
This may be taken as the sound principle of the common
law today.
It is argued that the petitioner is barred from the courts
by the Trading with the Enemy Act, 50 U. S. C. Appendix.
The particular clause relied on is § 7: "Nothing in this.
Act shall be deemed to authorize the prosecution of any
suit or action at law or in equity in any court within the
United States by an enemyor ally of enemy prior to the
end of the war, except as provided in Section 10 hereof
[which relates to patents]; . . ." Analysis of its
terms makes clear that this section Was not meant to apply
to petitioner, and an examination of its legislative history
makes this doubly certain. Section 7 bars from the courts
only an "enemy or ally of enemy." Section 2 of the Act
defines the "alien enemy" to which the Act applies as those
residing within the territory owned or occupied by the
enemy; the enemy government or its officers; 7 or citizens
I Some possible confusion on the part of the court below and of other
courts may have developed from our per curiam opinion in Ex parte
Colonna, 314 U. S. 510, in which leave to file a petition for writs of prohibition and mandamus in connection with a proceeding brought. in
behalf of the Italian government was denied on the basis of the Trading
with the Enemy Act. That opinion emphasized that an enemy government was included within the definition of the clasification ."enemy"
as ued in that act, and that such enemy plaintiffs had no right to
prosecute actions in our courts. The decision has no bearing on the
rights of resident enemy aliens. The Colonna decision was momen-

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

317 U. S.

of an enemy nation, wherever residing, as the President by
proclamation may, include within the definition. Since
the President has not under this Act 8 made any declaration as to enemy aliens, the Act does not bar petitioner
from maintaining his suit.
This interpretation, compelled by the words of the Act,
is wholly in accord with its general scope, for the Trading
with the Enemy Act was never intended, without Presidential proclamation, to affect resident aliens at all. Prior
to the passage of the Act, the courts had consistently held
that, during a state of war, commercial intercourse between our nationals and non-resident alien enemies, unless specifically authorized by Congress and the Executive,
was absolutely prohibited, and that contracts made in
such intercourse were void and unenforceable.' This
strict barrier could be relaxed only by Congressional direction, and therefore the Act was passed with its declared
purpose "to mitigate the rules of law which prohibit all
intercourse between the citizens, of warring nations, and
to permit, under careful safeguards and restrictions, certain kinds of business to be carried on." "0 Thus Congress expressly recognized by the passage of the Act that
"the more enlightened views of the present day as to treattarily misapplied in Kaufman v. Eisenberg, 177 N. Y. Misc. 939, 32
.N.Y. S. 2d 450, but the trial judge corrected a stay in proceedings he
had previously allowed, upon his further consideration of the fact that
the plaintiff was a resident alien.
8The President has issued a Proclamation taking certain steps with
reference to alien enemies under the Alien Enemy Act of 1798 as
amended, 50 U. S. C. § 21, but this Proclamation has no bearing on
the power of the President under the Trading with the Enemy Act.

1 Report of the Senate Committee on Commerce, Report No. 111,
65th Cong., 1st Sess., pages 15-22. Coppell v. Hall, 7 Wall. 542, 554,

557, 558.
10 Report of the Senate Committee on Commerce, Report No. 111,
65th Cong., 1st Sess., 1.

EX PARTE KAWATO.
69

Opinion of the Court.

ment of enemies makes possible certain relaxations in the
old law.""
Since the purpose of the bill was to permit certain relations with non-resident alien enemies, there is no frustration of its purpose in permitting resident aliens to sue in
our courts. Statements made on the floor of the House of
Representatives by the sponsor of the bill make this interpretation conclusive.
Not only has the President not seen fit to use the
authority possessed by him under the Trading with the
Enemy Act to exclude resident aliens from the courts, but
his administration has adopted precisely the opposite
program. The Attorney General is primarily responsible
for the administration of alien affairs. He has construed
the existing statutes and proclamations as not barring
this petitioner from our courts,1 and this stand is em"Report of the Senate Committee on Commerce, Report No. 111,
65th Cong., 1st Sess., 2.
12 "Mr. Montague: A German resident in the United States is not
an enemy under the terms of the bill, unless he should be so declared
subsequently by the proclamation of the President, in which case he
would have no standing in court." . . .
"Mr. Stafford: Do I understand that this bill confers upon the
President any authority to grant to an alien subject doing business in
this country the right to sue in the courts to enforce his contract?
"Mr. Montague: If he is a resident of this country, he has that
right under this bill without the proclamation of the President.
"Mr. Stafford: If so, where is that authority?
"Mr. Montague: In the very terms of the bill defining an enemy,
whereby German residents in the United States have all rights in this
respect of native-born citizens, unless these rights be recalled by the
proclamation of the President for hostile conduct on the part of the
Germans resident in the United States." 55 Cong. Rec. 4842, 4843
(1917).
'8 "No native, citizen, or subject of any nation with which the United
States is at war and who is resident in the United States is prevented
by federal statute or regulation from suing in federal or state courts."
Dept. of Justice press release, Jan. 31, 1942.

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.

78

Syllabus.

317 U. S.

phasized by the Government's appearance in behalf of
petitioner in this case."
The consequence of this legislative and administrative
policy is a clear authorization to resident enemy aliens to
proceed in all courts until administrative or legislative
action is taken to exclude them. Were this not true, contractual promises made to them by individuals, as well as
promises held out to them under our laws, would become
no more than teasing illusions. The doors of our courts
have not been shut to peaceable law-abiding aliens seeking
to enforce rights growing out of legal occupations. Let
the writ issue.
MARINE HARBOR PROPERTIES, INC. v. MANU-

FACTURERS TRUST CO., TRUSTEE,

Er AL.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 24.

Argued October 16, 19, 1942.-Decided November 9, 1942.

1. In exercise of the federal bankruptcy power, Congress may exclude
every competing or conflicting proceeding in state or federal tribunals. P. 83.
2. Although the pendency of a prior proceeding in a state or federal
court does not bar the filing of A.petition under Chapter X of the
14 The determination by Congress and the Executive not to interfere

with the rights of resident enemy aliens to proceed in the courts marks
a choice of remedies rather than a waiver of protection. The Government has an elaborate protective program. Under the Alien Enemy
Act, 50 U. S. C. § 21, the President has ordered the internment of
aliens, has instituted a system of identification, and has regulated
travel. Under the First War Powers Act, 50 U. S. C. Supp. I, 1940
ed. Appendix, § 5 (b), and various executive orders he has controlled
the funds of resident enemy aliens. Many other statutes make a composite pattern which Congress has apparently thought adequate for
the control of this problem. See, e. g., the controls on alien ownership
of land in the.territories, 8 U. S. C. Chap. 5.

