ADAMS v. U. S. iEx REL. McCANN.

269

Counsel for Parties.
ADAMS, WARDEN, ET AL. v. UNITED STATES
EX REL. McCANN.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 79. Argued November 17, 18,1942.-Decided December 21, 1942.
1. A Circuit Court of Appeals has power to issue a writ of habeas corpus as an incident to an appeal pending before it. P. 272.

2. The rule that a writ -of habeas corpus will not serve as an. appeal
must be strictly observed. P. 274.
3. Upon an appeal to thb Circuit Court of Appeals from a conviction
of felony, the appellant assigned several errors, including the insufficiency of the evidence; but the preparation of a bill of exceptions
was obstructed by peculiar difficulties, including the indigence of
the appellant and his incarceration in jail. The appellate court having raised the question whether the trial was void because the
defense had been conducted by the accused, and a jury had been
waived by him, without the help or advice of counsel:
Held that for its aid in deciding this question the Circuit Court
of Appeals had jurisdiction under Judicial Code § 262 to issue a
writ of habeas corpus. P: 274.
4. In a criminal prosecution in a federal court, an accused, in the exercise of a free and intelligent choice and with the considered approval of the court, may waive trial by jury, and so, likewise, may
waive his constitutional right to the assistance of counsel. P. 275.
126 F. 2d 774, reversed.
CERTIORARI, 316 U. S. 655, to review a judgment reversing a 6onviction and sentence in a prosecution for using
the mails to defraud in violation of Criminal Code, § 215.

Solicitor General Fahy, with whom Assistant Attorney
GeneralBerge and Messrs. Archibald Cox and Richard S.
Salant were on the brief, for petitioners.
Mr. Robert G. Page for respondent.

270

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

517 U. S.

MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This is a review of an order by the ,Circuit Court of
Appeals for the Second Circuit discharging the relator
McCann from custody. We accept as facts, as did the
court below, those set forth in the untraversed return to
the writ of habeas corpus in that court.
McCann was indicted on six counts for using the mails
to defraud, in violation of § 215 of the Criminal Code, 18
U. S. C. § 338. From the time of his arraignment on
February 18, 1941, to the prosecution of his appeal in the
court below, McCann insisted on conducting his case without the assistance of a lawyer. When called upon to
plead to the indictment, he refused to do so; a plea of
not guilty was entered on his behalf. The District Court
at that time advised McCann to retain counsel. He refused, however, "stating in substance that he desired to
represent himself, that the case was very complicated,
and that he was so familiar with its details that no attorney would be able to give him as competent representation as he would be able to give himself."
When the case came on for trial on July 7, 1941, McCann repeated, in reply to the judge's inquiry whether
he had counsel, that he wished to represent himself. In
response to the court's further inquiry whether he was
admitted to the bar, McCann "replied, that he was not,
but that he had studied law, and was sufficiently familiar
therewith adequately to defend himself, and was more
familiar with the complicated facts of his case than any
attorney could ever be." 1 McCann "then moved to have
McCann had brought suit in 1933 against the New York Stock
Exchange, its officers and members, the Better Business Bureau of
New York, and a large number of other persons, seeking thirty million
dollars damages for conspiracy in restraint of trade. He represented
himself in this extensive litigation, and personally brought appeals to

ADAMS v. U. S.
269

EX REL.

McCANN.

Opinion of the Court.

the case tried without a jury by the judge alone. There
was a brief discussion between the Court, the petitioner,
and the Assistant United States Attorney," after which'
McCann submitted the following over his signature: "I,
Gene McCann, the defendant herein, appearing personally, do hereby waive a trial by jury in the above entitled
case, having been advised by the Court of my constitutional right." The Assistant United States Attorney consented, and the judge (one of long trial experience and
tested solicitude for the civilized administration of criminal justice) entered an order approving this "waiver."
The trial then got under way. It lasted for two weeks
and a half, and throughout the entire proceedings McCann
represented himself. He was convicted on July 22, 1941,
and was sentenced to imprisonment for six years and to
pay a fine of $600. He took an appeal, and the trial
judge fixed bail at $10,000. Being unable to procure this
sum, he remained in custody. Then followed applications to the Circuit Court of Appeals, likewise ,pressed by
McCann himself, for extending the time for filing a bill
of exceptions. In these proceedings both the trial and
appellate courts again suggested to McCann the advisability of being represented by counsel. After having
personally made these numerous applications, McCann
finally secured the assistance of an attorney. The latter
applied to the Circuit Court of Appeals for reduction of
bail. It was so reduced. But at the same time the court
suggested that McCann take out a writ of habeas corpus,
returnable to the court, to raise the-question whether, in
the circumstances of the case, "the judge had jurisdiction
to try him."
As is pointed out in the opinion: of the Circuit Court
of Appeals, "At no time did he [McCann] indicate that
the Circuit Court of Appeals and to this Court. See McCann v.
New York Stock Exchange, 80 F. 2d 211; 107 F. 2d 908; 309 U. S. 684.

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

317 U. S.

he wished a jury or that herepented of his consenteither while the cause was in the District Court or in this
court-until the attorney, who now represents him, in
March, 1942, raised the point" at the court's invitation.
The "point" thus projected into the case by the Circuit
Court of Appeals was presented, in its own words, "in the
barest possible form: Has an accused, Who is without
counsel, the power at his own instance to surrender his
right of trial by jury when indicted for felony?" I The
Circuit Court of Appeals, with one judge dissenting, answered this question in the negative. It held that no person accused of a felony-who is himself not a lawyer-can
waive trial by a jury, no matter how capable he is of making an intelligent, informed choice and how strenuously he
insists upon such a choice, unless he does so upon the
advice of an attorney. 126 F. 2d 774. The obvious importance of this question to the administration of criminal
justice in the federal courts led, us to bring the case here.
316 U. S. 655.
A jurisdictional obstacle to a consideration of this issue
is pressed before us. It is urged that the Circuit Court
of Appeals had no jurisdiction to issue the writ of habeas
corpus in this case. The discussion of this question took
an extended range in the arguments at the bar, but in the
circumstances of this case the matter lies within a narrow
compass. Uninterruptedly from the first Judiciary Act
(§ 14 of the Act of September 24, 1789, 1 Stat. 73, 81) to
the present day (§ 262 of the Judicial Code, 28 U. S. C.
§ 377), the courts of the United States .have had powers
of an auxiliary nature "to issue all writs not specifically
provided for by statute, which may be necessary for the
2 Felony,

it may not be irrelevant to note, is a verbal survival which

has been emptied of its historic content. Under the federal Criminal
Code all offenses punishable by death or imprisonment for more than
a year are felonies. § 335 of the Criminal Code, 18 U. S. C. § 541.

ADAMS
269

V. U. S. EX REL.

McCANN.

Opinion of the Court.

exercise of their respective jurisdictions, and agreeableto
the usages and principles of law." In Whitney v. Dick,
202 U. S. 132, this Court held that where no proceeding of
an appellate character is pending in a Circuit Court of
Appeals, the authority to issue auxiliary writs does not
come into operation. A circuit court of appeals cannot
issue the writ of habeas corpus as "an independent and
original proceeding challenging in toto the validity of a
judgment rendered in another court." But the Court
also recognized that there was power to issue the writ
"where it may be necessary for the exercise of a jurisdiction already existing." 202 U. S. at 136-37. In the case
at bar, a proceeding of an appellate character was pending in the Circuit Court of Appeals, for McCann had
already filed an appeal from the judgment of conviction.
There was, therefore, "a jurisdiction already existing" in
the Circuit Court of Appeals. But could the issuance of
the writ be deemed "necessary for the exercise" of. that
jurisdiction?
Procedural instruments are means for achieving the
rational ends of law. A Circuit Court of Appeals is not
limited to issuing a writ of habeas corpus only when it.
finds that it is "necessary" in the sense that the court
could not otherwise physically discharge its appellate
duties. Unless appropriately confined by Congress, a
federal court may avail itself of all auxiliary writs as aids
in the performance of its duties, when the use of such
historic aids is calculated in its sound judgment to
achieve the ends of justice entrusted to it. Undoubtedly,
therefore, the Circuit Court of Appeals had "jurisdiction,"
in the sense that it had the power, to issue the writ as an
incident to the appeal then pending before it. The real
question is whether the Circuit Court of Appeals abused
its power in exercising that jurisdiction in the situation
that confronted it.
503873-43-25

274

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

317 U. S.

Of course the writ of habeas corpus should not do service
for an appeal. Glasgow v. Moyer, 225 U. S. 420, 428;
Matter of Gregory, 219 U. S. 210, 213.' This rule must
be strictly observed if orderly appellate procedure is to be
maintained. Mere convenience cannot justify use'of the
writ as a substitute for an appeal. ]Buf dry formalism
should not sterilize procedural resources which Congress
has made available to the federal courts. -In exceptional
cases where, because of special circumstances, its use as an
aid to an appeal over which the court has jurisdiction may
fairly be said to be reasonably necessary in the interest of
justice, the writ of habeas corpus is available to a circuit
court of appeals.
The circumstances that moved the court below to the
exercise of its jurisdiction were the peculiar difculties
involved in preparing a bill of exceptions. The stenographic minutes had never been typed. The reator
claimed that he was without funds. Since he was unable
to raise the bail fixed by the trial judge, he had been in
custody since sentence and therefore had no opportunity
to prepare a bill of exceptions. The court doubted
"whether any [bill] can ever be made up on which the
appeal can be heard . . . In the particular circumstances
of the case at bar, it seems to us that the writ is 'necessary
to the complete exercise' of our appellate jurisdiction because . . . there is a danger that it cannot be otherwise
exercised at all and a certainty that it must in any event
be a good deal hampered."
The court below recognized, however, that a bill of exceptions might be prepared which would be confined to the
single point raised by the writ of habeas corpus. This is
the basig for the contention that the writ of habeas corpus
in this case performs the function of an appeal. But inasmuch as McCann was urging a number of grounds for
the reversal of his conviction, including the sufficiency
of the evidence, the Circuit Court of Appeals was justified

ADAMS v. U. S.
269

EX REL.

McCANN.

Opinion of the Court.

in concluding that it would not be fair to make him stake
his whole appeal on the single point raised by this writ.
We cannot say that the court was unreasonable in the view
it took of the situation with which it was presented and
with which it was more familiar than the printed record
hlone can reveal. The writ of habeas corpus was not a
substitute for the pending appeal, and was therefore not
improvidently entertained by the court below.
This brings us to the merits. They are controlled in
principle by Patton v. United States, 281 U. S. 276, and
Johnson v. Zerbst, 304 U. S.458. The short of the matter is that an accused, in the exercise of a free and intelligent choice, and with the considered approval of the
court, may waive trial by jury, and so likewise may he
competently and intelligently waive his Constitutional
right to assistance of counsel. There is nothing in the
Constitution to prevent an accused from choosing to have
his fate tried before a judge without a jury even though,
in deciding what is best for himself, he follows the guidance of his own wisdom and not that of a lawyer. In
taking a contrary view, the court below appears to have
been largely influenced by the radiations of this Court's
opinion in Glasser v. United States, 315 U. S. 60. But
Patton v. United States, supra, and Johnson v. Zerbst,
supra, were left wholly unimpaired by the ruling in the
Glasser case.
Certain safeguards are essential to criminal justice.
The court must be uncoerced, Moore v. Dempsey, 261 U. S.
86, and it must have no interest other than the pursuit
of justice, Tumey v. Ohio, 273 U. S: 510. The accused
must have ample opportunity to meet the case of the
prosecution. To that end, the Sixth Amendment of the
Constitution abolished the rigors of the common law by
affording one charged with crime the assistance of counsel
for his defense, Johnson v. Zerbst, 304 U. S.458. Such
assistance "in the particular situation" of "ignorant de-

276

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court,

317 U.S.,

fendants in a capital case" led to'recognition that "thebenefit of counsel was essential to the substance of a
hearing," as guaranteed by the Due Process Clause of the
Fourteenth Amendment, in criminal prosecutions in the
state courts. Palko v. Connecticut, 302 U. S. 319, 327.
Compare Powell v. Alabama, 287 U. S. 45, and Betts v.
Brady, 316 U. S. 455. The relation of trial by jury to
civil rights-especially in ciiminal cases--is fully revealed
by the history which gave rise to the provisions of the
Constitution which guarantee that right. Article III,
§ 2, paragraph 3; Sixth Amendment; Seventh Amendment. That history is succinctly summarized in the
Declaration of Independence, in which complaint was
made that the Colonies were deprived, "in many cases,
of the benefits of Trial by Jury,". But procedural devices
rooted in experience were written into the Bill of Rights
not as abstract rubrics in an elegant code but in order to
assure fairness and justice before any person could be
deprived of "life, liberty or property."
It hardly occurred to the framers of the original Constitution and of the Bill of Rights that an accused,, acting
in obedience to the dictates of self-interest or the promptings of conscience, should be prevented from surrendering
his liberty by admitting his guilt. The Constitution 'does
not compel an accused who admits his guilt to stand trial
against his own wishes. Legislation' apart, no social
policy calls for the adoption by the courts of an inexorable
rule that guilt must be determined only by trial and not
by admission. A plea of guilt expresses the defendant's
belief that hig acts were proscribed by law and that he
cannot successfully be defended. It is true, of course,
that guilt under § 215 of the Criminal Code, which-makes
it a crime to use the mails to defraud, depends upon
answers to questions of law raised by application of the

ADAMS v. U. S.
269

EX REL.

McCANN.

.277

Opinion of the Court.

statute to particular facts. It is equally true that prosecu'tions under other provisions of the Criminal.-Code may
raise even more difficult and complex questions of law.
But such questions are no less absent when a man pleads
guilty than when he resists an accusation of crime. And
not even now is it suggested that a layman cannot plead
guilty, unless he has the opinion of a lawyer on the questions of law that might arise if he did not admit his guilt.
Plainly, the engrafting of such a requirement ujon the
Constitution would be a gratuitous dislocation of the
processes of justice. The task of judging the competence
of a particular accused cannot be escaped by announcing
delusively simple -rules of -trial procedure which judges
must mechanically follow. The question in each case is
whether the accused was competent to exercise an intelligent,, informed judgment-and for determination of. this
question .it is of course relevant whether he had the advice
of counsel. But it is. quite another matter to suggest
that the Constitution unqualifiedly deems an accused incompetent unless he does have the advice of counsel. -If
a layman is to be precluded from defending himself because the Constitution is said to make him helpless without a lawyer's assistance on questions of law which abstractly underlie all federal criminal prosecutions, it ought
not to matter whether the decision he ia called upon to
make is that of pleading guilty or of waiving a particular
mode of trial. Every conviction, including the consider-'
able number based upon pleas of guilty, presupposes at
least a tacit disposition of the legal questions involved.
We have already held that one charged with a serious
federal crime may dispense with his Constitutional right
to jury trial, where this action is taken With his express,
intelligent consent, where the Government also consents,
and where suchaction is approved by the responsible judg-

278

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
317 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

ment of the trial court. Pattonv. United States, 281 U. S.
276.8 And whether or not there is an intelligent, competent, self-protecting waiver of jury trial by an accused
must depend upon the unique circumstances of each case.
The less rigorous enforcement of the rules of evidence, the
greater informality in trial procedure-these are not the
only advantages that the absence of a jury may afford to
a layman who preferg to make his own defense. In a
variety' of subtle ways trial by jury may be restrictive of
a layman's opportunities to present his case as freely as
he wishes. And since trial by jury confers burdens as
well as benefits, an accused should be permitted to forego
its privileges when his competent judgment counsels him
that his interests are safer in the keeping of the judge than
of the jury.
But we are asked here to. hold that an accused person
cannot waive trial by jury, no matter how freely and
understandingly he surrenders that right, unless he acts on
a lawyer's advice. In other words, although a shrewd and
experienced layman may, for his own sufficient reasons,
conduct his own defense if he prefers to do so, nevertheless
if he does do so the Constitution requires -that he must
defend himself before a jury and not before a judge. But
we find nothing in the Constitution, or in the great historic
events which gave rise to it, or the history to which it has
given rise, to justify such interpolation into the Consti8

The ruling of the Patton case, namely, that the provisions of the
Constitution dealing with trial by jury in the federal courts were
"meant to confer a right upon the accused which he may forego at
his election," 281 U. S. at 298, was expressly recognized and acted upon
by Congress in the Act of March 8,1934, c. 49, 48 Stat.- 399, which
empowered the Supreme Court to prescribe rules of practice and procedure with respect to "proceedings after verdict, or finding of guilt
by the court if a jury has been waived, or plea of guilty, in criminal

cases in district courts of the United States. . .

."

(Italics added.)

Compare H. Rep. No. 858, Sen. Rep. No. 257, 73d Cong., 2d Sess.

ADAMS v. U. S.
269

EX REL.

McCANN.

Opinion of the Court.

tution and such restriction upon the rational admihistration of criminal justice.
The right to assistance of counsel and the correlative
right to dispense with a lawyer's help are not legal formalisms. They rest on considerations that go to the substance of an accused's position before the law. The public
conscience must be satisfied that fairness dominates the
administration of justice. An accused must have the
means of presenting his best defense. He must have time
and facilities for investigation and for the production of
evidence. But evidence and truth are of no avail unless
they can be adequately presented. Essential fairness is
lacking if an accused cannot put his case effectively in
court. But the Constitution does not force a lawyer upon
a defendant. He may waive his Constituti-nal right to
assistance of counsel if he knows what he is doing and his
choice is made with eyes open. Johnson v. Zerbst, 304
U. S. 458, 468-69.
Referring to jury trials, Mr. Justice Cardozo, speaking
for the Court, had occasion to say, "Few would be so narrow or provincial as to maintain that a fair and enlightened system of justice would be impossible without th'fm "
Palko v. Connecticut, 302 U. S. at 325. Putting t is
thought in more generalized form, the procedural safeguards of the Bill of Rights are not to be treated as
mechanical rigidities. What were contrived as protections for the accused should not be turned into fetters.
To assert as an absolute that a layman, no matter how
wise or experienced he may be, is incompetent to choose
between judge and jury as the tribunal for determining
his guilt or innocence, simply because a lawyer has not
advised him on the choice, is to dogmatize beyond the
bounds of learning or experience. Were we so to hold, wt
would impliedly condemn the administration of criminal
justice in States deemed otherwise enlightened, merely

.280

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

317 U. S.

because: in their 'courts the Vast majority of criminal
cases are tried before a judge without a jury To deny
an accused a choice of procedure in circumstances in
which he, though a layman, is as capable as any lawyer of
making an intelligent choice, is to. impair the worth of
great Constitutional safeguards by treating them as empty
verbalisms.
Underlying such dogmatism is distrust of -the abiliy of
courts to.accommodate judgment to-the varying circumstances of individual cases." But this is to express want
of faith in the very tribunals which are charged with
enforcement Of the Constitution. "Universal distrust,"
Mr. Justice, Holmes admonished us, "creates universal
incompetence." Graham v. United States, 231 U. S. 474,
480. When the administration of the criminal law in the
federal courts is hedged about as it is by the Constitutional
safeguards for the protection of an accused, to. deny him
in the exercise of his free choice the right to dispense with
some of. these safeguards (when such surrenders are as
jealously guarded as they are by our rulings in Patton v.
United States, supra,and Johnsonv. Zerbst, supra), and to
base such denial on an arbitrary rule that a man cannot
choose to conduct his defense -before a judge rather than
a jury unless, against his will, he has a lawyer to advise
him, although he reasonably deems himself the best advisor for his own needs,. is to imprison -a man in his privileges and call it the Constitution. For it is neither
obnoxious to humane standards for the administration of
justice as these have been written into the Constitution,
nor violative of the rights of any person accused of crime
who is capable of weighing his own best interest, to permit
him to conduct his own defense. in a trial before a judge
without a jury, subject as such trial is to public scrutiny
and amenable as it is to the corrective oversight of an
appellate tribunal and ultimately of the Supreme Court
of the Nation.

ADAMS v. U. S.
269

EX'REL.

McCANN.

DouGlAS, J., dissenting.

Once we reject such a doctrinaire view of criminal
-justice and of the Constitution, there is an end to this
case. The Patton decision left no room for doubt that -a
determination of guilt by a court after waiver of jury
trial-could not be set aside and, a new trial ordered except
upon a plain showing that such waiver was not freely
and intelligently made. If the result of the: adjudicatory
process is not to be set at naught, it is not asking too much
that the burden of showing essential unfairness be sustained by him who claims such injustice and seeks to have
•the result set aside, and that it be sustained not as a
matter of speculation but as a demonstrable reality.
Simply because a result that was insistently invited,
namely, a verdict by a court without a jury, disappointed
the hopes of the, accused, ought not to be sufficient for
rejecting it. And if the record before us does not -show
an intelligent and competent waiver of the right to the
assistance of counsel by a defendant who demanded again
and again that the judge try him, and who in his persistence of such a choice knew what he was about, it
would be. difficult to conceive of a set of: circumstances -in
which there was-such a free choice by a self-determining
individual.
The order of the CircUit Court of Appeals must therefore
be set aside and the cause remanded to that court -for such
furtherproceedings, not inconsistent with this opinion, a
may be appropriate.
,Soordered.
-

MR. JUsTIcE DOUGLA,

dissenting:

The Pattoncase (281 U. S. 276) held that a defendant
represented by coufisel might waive under certain circunstances trial by a jury of twelve and submit to trial by a
jury of 6nly eleven. In view of the strictness of the con-,
stitutional.mandates, I am by no means convincs.d thatit
follows that an entire jury maybe waived. Bdt assuming

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
DOUGLAS, J., dissenting.

317 U. S

arguendo that it may be, I think the respondent should
have had the benefit of legal advice before his waiver of
a jury trial was accepted by the District Court. For I
do not believe that we can safely assume that in absence
of legal advice a waiver by a layman of his constitutional
right to a jury trial was intelligent and competent in such
a case as this.
Respondent was indicted under the mail fraud statute.
35 Stat. 1130, 18 U. S. C. § 338. It subjects to fine or imprisonment one who "having devised or intending to devise any scheme or artifice to defraud ... shall, for the
purpose of executing such scheme or artifice or attempting
so to do, place, or cause to be placed, any letter, postal card,
package, writing, circular, pamphlet, or advertisement . . .
in any post-office . . . or other letter box of the United
States." It would be unlikely that a layman without the
benefit of legal advice would understand the limited nature of the defenses available under that statute or the
scope of the ultimate issues on which the question of guilt
usually turns. Without thatunderstanding I do not see
how an intelligent choice, between trial by judge or trial
by jury could be made.
The broad sweep of the statute has not been restricted
by judicial construction. What might appear to a layman
as a complete defense has commonly been depied by the
courts in keeping with the policy of Congress to draw tight
the net around those who tax ingenuity in devising fraudulent schemes. Thus an indictment will be upheld or a
conviction sustained though the defendant did not intend
to use the mails at the time the scheme was designed,'
though no one was defrauded or suffered any loss,' though
1 United States v.
2

Young, 232 U. S. 155.

Cowl v. United States, 35 F. 2d 794; United States v. Rowe, 56 F.

2d 747.

ADAMS v. U. S. Ex REL. McCANN.
269

DOuGLAS, J., dissenting.

the defendant did not intend to receive Ior did not receive
any benefit from the' scheme, though. the defendant actually believed that his plan'would in the end benefit the
persons solicited,' though the means were ineffective for
carrying out the scheme,' and, perhaps, even though the
mails were used not for solicitation but only in collection
of checks received pursuant to the plan.! In other words,
the defenses in law are few and far between. As a practical matter, if the mails were employed at any stage, the
question of guilt turns on whether the defendant had a
fraudulent intent. That is the significant fact. Durland
v. United States, 161 U. S. 306, 313.
I think a layman normally would need legal advice to
know that much. And it seems to me unlikely that he
would be capable of appraising his chances as between
judge and jury without such advice. Without it he might
well conclude that he had adequate defenses on which a
judge could better pass than a jury. With such advice he
might well pause to entrust the question of his intent to
a particular judge, rather than to a jury of his peers drawn
from the community where most of the transactions took
place and instructed to acquit if they had a reasonable
doubt. On the other hand, if he had a full understanding
of the issues, he might conceivably deem it a matter of
large importance that he be tried by the judge rather than
a jury. The point is that we should not leave to sheer
speculation the question whether his waiver of a jury trial
3

Kellogg v. United States, 126 F. 323.
Calnay v. United States, 1 F. 2h 926; Chew v. United States, 9 F.
2d 348.
Pandolfo v. United States, 286 F. 8; Foshay v. United States, 68 F.
2d 205.
6 See Durlandv. United States, 161 U. S. 306, 315.
7 Tincher v. United States, 11 F. 2d 18; Bradford v. United States,
4

129 F. 2d .274.
But see Dyhre v.Hudspeth, 106 F. 2d 286; Stapp v. United States:
120 F. 2d 898.

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
DOUGLAS,

J., dissenting.

t'
317 U. S.

was intelligent and' competent. -Yet, on this record we
can only speculate, since all we know is that respondent
professed to- have "'studied law" and that he lost a civil
suit which he had' prosecuted pro se. McCann v. New
York Stock Exchange, 107 F. 2d 908. Furthermore, the
right to trial by jury, like the right to have the-assistance
of counsel,- is "too fundamental and absolute to allow
courts to indulge in nice calculations as to the amount of
prejudice -arising from its denial." Glasser v: 'United
States, 315 U. S. 60, 76. Moreover, 'as Judge Learned
Hand Stated in the court below, the answer to the question whether the waiver was 'intelligent should hardly be
made to depend on "the outcome of a preliminary inquiry
as to the competency" of the particular layman. If this
const-itutional right is to be jealously 'protected, there
should be a reliable objective standard by which the trial
court satisfies itself that the layman who waives trial by
jury in a case like this has a full understanding of the
consequences. Dillingham v. United States, 76 F. 2d-36,
39. A't least, Where the trial judge fails 'to inform him,
the only safe' and practical alternative in a case like the
present one is 'to require the appointment of counsel.
Only then should we say that the trial jidge h-as 'exercised
that "sound and advised discretion!" which the Patton
case required' even before a waiver 'of one juror was
accepted. 281 U. S. p. 312.
.The question for us is not 'whether a judge should be
trusted as much as a jury to determine the question of
guilt. We are dealing here with one of the great historic
civil liberties--the right to trial by jury. Article III,
§ 2 and the Sixth Amendment, which grant that right,
contain -*o exception, though a few have been implied.
See Ex parte Quirin, ante, p.. 1. We should not permit
the exceptions to be enlarged by' waiver unless it is plain
and beyond doubt that the waiver was freely and intelli.

ADAMS v. U: S.

Ex RL

McCANN.

DOuGLAS, J., dissenting.

269

gently made.

The Patton case surrounds such a waiver

with numerous safeguards even where, as in that -case,
the waiver was made by one who was represented by
counsel. We should be even more strict and exacting in
case the waiver is made by a-layman acting on his own.
Then the reasons for indulging every reasonable presumption against a waiver of "fundamental constitutional
rights" (Johnson v. Zerbst, 304 U. S. 458, 464) bebome
even more compelling.
The fact that a defendant ordinarily may dispense with
a 'trial by admitting his guilt is no reason for accepting
this layman's waiver of a jury trial. What the Constitution requires is that the "trial" of a crime "shall be
by jury."

Art. III, § 2.

And it specifies the machinery

which shall be employed if a plea of not guilty is entered
and the prosecutionis put to its proof. Moreover, we are
not dealing here with absolutes. Normally, admission of
guilt could properly be accepted without more, since ordinarily a defendant would know whether or not he was guilty
of the crime charged. But there might conceivably be
an exception, where, for example, the issue of guilt turned
not only on the admitted facts but upon the construction of
a statute. Each case of necessity turns on its own facts.
Nor is it a sufficient answer to say that if legal advice is
required for a waiver of -trial by jury, then by the same
token a layman representing himself could not exercise
his own judgment concerning any matter during the trial
with respect to which a lawyer might have superior
knowledge.- Whether the waiver, of counsel for purposes
of the trial meets the exacting standards of Johnson v.
Zerbst is one thing. Whether that dilution of. constitutional rights may be compounded by a waiver of trial by
jury Is quite another. It is the cumulative effect of the several waivers of constitutional rights in a given case which
must be gauged. Nor can I accede to the suggestion of

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
MURPHY, J., dissenting.

317 U. S.

the prosecution that a layman's right to waive trial by
jury is such an important part of his high privilege to
manage his own case that its exercise should be freely
accorded. That argument is faintly reminiscent of those
notions of freedom of choice and liberty of contract which
long denied protection to the individual in other fields.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK

and MR.

JUSTICL MURPHY

join in

this dissent.
MR. JUSTICE MURPHY.

I join my brother DOUGLAS, but desire to add the following views in dissent.
The Constitubion provides: "The Trial of all Crimes,
• . . shall be by Jury; . . ." (Article III, § 2), and: "In
all criminal prosecutions, the accused shall enjoy the right
to a speedy and public tral, by an impartial jury of the
State and district wherei" the crime shall have been committed, . . ." (Amendment VI). Because of these provisions, the fundamental nature of jury trial,' and its
beneficial effects as a means of leavening justice with the
spirit of the times,2 I do not concede that the right to a
jury trial can be waived in criminal proceedings in the
federal courts. Whatever may be the logic of the matter,
there is a considerable practical difference between trial
by eleven jur'rs, the situation in Pattonv. United States,
281 U. S. 276, and trial to the court, and practicality
is a sturdy guide to the preservation of Constitutional
guaranties.
But if it is assumed that jury trial, the prized product
of the travail of the past, can be waived by an accused,
Compare Glasser v. United States, 315 U. S. 60, 84-85, and Jacob v.
New York City, 315 U. S. 752.
2 This is admirably stated by Judge Learned Hand below, 126 F. 2d

at 775-776.

WILLIAMS v. NORTH CAROLINA.
269

Syllabus.

there should be compliance with rigorous standards,
adequately designed to insure that an accused fully understands his rights and intelligently appreciates the effects
of his step, before a court should accept such a waiver.
Among those requirements in the case of a layman defendant in a criminal proceeding where the punishment
may be substantial, as in the instant case, should be the
right to have the benefit of the advice of counsel on the
desirability of waiver. Of course the capacity of individuals to appraise their interests varies, but such a uniform general rule will protect the rights of all much better
than a rule depending upon the fluctuating factual
variables of the individual case which are often difficult
to evaluate on the basis of the cold record. In my opinion
the Constitution requires this general rule as an absolute
right if a jury is to be waived at all.

WILLIAMS ET AL. V. NORTH CAROLINA.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF NORTH CAROLINA.

No. 29. Argued October 20, 1942.-Decided December 21, 1942.
1. Where a conviction in a.criminal prosecution is based upon a general verdict that does not.specify the ground on which it rests, and
one of the grounds upon which it may rest is invalid under the Federal Constitution, the judgment can not be sustained. Stromberg
v. California, 283 U. S. 359. P. 292.
2. A man and a woman went from North Carolina to Nevada and,
after residing there for a time sufficient to meet the requirement of
a Nevada statute, secured decrees from a Nevada court, divorcing
them from their respective spouses in North Carolina, the State in,
which they had been married and domiciled. They then married
each other in Nevada, returned to North Carolina and cohabited
there as man and wife. Prosecuted under a North Carolina statute
for bigamous cohabitation, they set up in defense the Nevada decrees. A general verdict was returned, after instructions permitting
,that the decrees be disregarded upon either of two grounds, (1) that

