DAVIS v. DEPARTMENT OF LABOR.
239

Syllabus.

Much of what we have said above concerning the necessity of preserving all of the substantial admiralty rights
in an action at law is incompatible with the conclusion of
the court below. The right of the petitioner to be free
from the burden of proof imposed by the Pennsylvania
local rule inhered in his cause of action. Deeply rooted
in admiralty as that right is, it was a part of the very
substance of his claim and cannot be considered a mere
incident of a form of procedure. Central Vermont Ry.
Co. v. White, 238 U. S. 507, 511, 512; Cities Service Co. v.
Dunlap, 308 U. S. 208, 212; and cf. The Ira M. Hedges,
218 U. S. 264, 270. Pennsylvania having opened its
courts to petitioner to enforce federally created rights,
the petitioner was entitled to the benefit of the full scope
of these rights. The cause is reversed for action not
inconsistent with this opinion.
Reversed.
DAVIS v. DEPARTMENT OF LABOR AND INDUSTRIES OF THE STATE OF WASHINGTON.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
WASHINGTON.

No. 86. Argued November 18, 1942.-Decided December 14, 1942.
An employee of a construction company, which was a contributor to
the workmen's compensation fund of the State, was employed in or
about the dismantling of an abandoned bridge over a navigable
s tream, which involved cutting steel from the bridge, lowering it to
a barge and towing or hauling the barge, when loaded, to a storage
place. He had helped to cut some steel from the bridge and, at the
time of the accident, was working on the barge, examining steel after
it had been lowered and cutting the pieces to proper lengths, -as
necessary. While so employed he fell, or was knocked, into the
stream, in which his body was found. Held:
1. That there is no constitutional objection to an award to the
decedent's widow under the Washington Act, which provides compensation for employees, or dependents of employees, such as de-

250

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court..

317 U. S.

cedent, if application of the Act can be made "within the legislative
jurisdiction of the State," and which expressly covers "all employers
or workmen . . . engaged in maritime occupations for whom no
right or obligation exists under the maritime laws"; and that the
Federal Longshoremen's and Harbor Workers' Act, under which no
administrative action had been taken, did not exclude such application of the state law. P. 255.
2. Certain employees such as decedent are in a twilight zone of
jurisdiction; and the determination as to whether they are subject to
a state act or to the Federal Longshoremen's and Harbor Workers'
Act is largely a question of fact. P. 256.
3. Faced with this factual problem, courts will give presumptive
weight to the conclusions of the appropriate federal authorities and
to state statutes. P. 256.
4. Not only does the state Act in this case appear to cover the employee; aside from the constitutional consideration, but no conflicting
process of federal administration is apparent. Under all the circumstances of the case, the Court relies on the presumption of constitutionality in favor of the state enactment. Giving full weight to the
presumption, and resolving all doubts in favor of the Act, the Court
holds that the Constitution is no obstacle to the petitioner's recovery.
P. 258.
12 Was'.,2d 349, 121 P. 2d 365, reversed.

CERTIORARI, 316 U. S. 657, to review a judgment rejecting a claim made under the state workmen's compensation
law.
Mr. Alfred J. Schweppe, with whom Messrs. Maurice P.
McMicken and Otto B. Rupp were on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Edward S. Franklin,Assistant Attorney General of
the State of Washington, with whom Messrs. Smith Troy,
Attorney General, and T. H. Little, Assistant Attorney
General, were on the brief, for respondent..
MR. JUSTIcE BLACK delivered the opinion of the Court.

In this case the Washington Supreme Court held that.
the
State
could
consistently
with the Federal Constitution,
make
an not,
award
under its state
compensation law to

DAVIS v. DEPARTMENT OF LABOR.
249

251

Opinion of the Court.

the widow of a workman drowned in a navigable river.
The circumstances which caused the court to reach this
conclusion were these:
The petitioner's husband, a structural steelworker, was
drowned in the Snohomish River while working as an employee of the Manson Construction and Engineering Company, a contributor to the Workmen's Compensation Fund
of the State of Washington. Contributions of Washington employers to this Fund are compulsory in certain types
of occupations, including the job for which the deceased
had been employed. Rem. Rev. Stat. (1932) § 7674.
That job was to dismantle an abandoned drawbridge which
spanned-the river. A part of the task was to cut steel from
the bridge with oxyacetylene torches and move it about
250 feet away for storage there to await delivery to a local
purchaser. The steel when cut from the bridge was
lowered to a barge by a derrick; and vhen loaded, the
barge was to be towed by a tug, hauled by cable, or, if the
the current made it necessary, both towed and hauled to
the storage point. Three vessels which had been brought
there along the stream, for use by the employer in the
work-a tug, derrick barge, and a barge,-were all licensed
by the U. S. Bureau of Navigation. The derrick barge
was fastened to the bridge; the barge was tied to the derrick barge. Deceased had helped to cut some steel from
the bridge and, at the time of the accident, was working
on the barge, which had not yet been completely loaded
for its first carriage of steel to the place of storage. His
duty appears to have been to examine the steel after it was
lowered to the barge and, when necessary, to cut the piece.
to proper lengths. From this barge he fell or was knocked
into the stream in -which his body was found.
The Washington statute provides compensation for
employees and dependents of employees, such as decedent,
if its application can be made "within the legislative jurisdiction of the state." A further statement of coverage

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

317.U.S.

applies the Act to "all employers or workmen . . . engaged in maritime occupations for whom no right or
obligation exists under the maritime laws." Rem. Rev.
Stat., '§ 7674, 7693a. A line of opinions of this Court,
beginning with Southern Pacific Co. v. Jensen, 244 U. S.
205, 216, held that under some circumstances states could,
but under others could not, consistently with Article III,
Par. 2 of the Federal Constitution,' apply their compensation laws to, maritime employees. State legislation was
declared to be invalid only when it "works material
prejudir to the characteristic features of the general maritime law 'r interferes with the proper harmony and uniformity of that law in its international and interstate
relations." When a state could, and when it could not,
grant protection under a compensation act was left as a
perplexing problem, for it was held "difficult, if not impossible," to define this boundary with exactness.
With the manifest desire of removing this uncertainty so
that workers whose duties were partly on land and partly
on navigable waters might be compensated for injuries,
Congress on October 6, 1917, five months after the Jensen
decision, passed an Act attempting to give such injured
persons "the rights and remedies under the workmen's
compensation law of any state." 40 Stat. 395. May 17,
1920, this Court declared the Act unconstitutional.
Knickerbocker Ice Co. v. Stewart, 253 U. S. 149. June
10, 1922, 42 Stat. 634, Congress made another effort to
permit state compensation laws to. protdct these waterfront, employees, but this second effort was also held invalid. State of Washington v. W. C. Dawson & Co., 264
U. 'S.219. March 4, 1927, came the federal Longshoremen's 'and Harbor Workers' Act, 33 U. S. C. § 901 et seq.
Here again, however, Congress made clear its purpose to
This Article extends the jurisdiction of federal courts "to all cases
of admiralty and maritime Jurisdiction."

DAVIS v. DEPARTMENT OF LABOR.
249

Opinion of the Court.

permit state compensation protection whenever possible,
by making the federal law applicable only "if recovery for
the disability or death through workmen's compensation
proceedings may not validly be provided by state law."
. Harbor workers and longshoremen employed "in whole
or in part upon the navigable waters" are clearly protected
by this federal act; but employees such as decedent here,
occupy that shadowy area within which, at some undefined and undefinable point, state laws can validly provide compensation. This Court has been unable to give
'any guiding, definite rule to determine the extent of state
power in advance of litigation, and hs held that the
margins of state authority must "be determined in view
of surrounding circumstances as cases arise." Baizley
Iron Works v. Span, 281 U. S. 222, 230. The determination of particular cases, of which there have been a great
many, has become extremely difficult. It is fair to say
that a number of cases can be cited both in behalf of and
in opposition to recovery here.2
2 Cases which lend strength to petitioner's position are: Sultan Railway & Timber Co. v. Dept. of Labor, 277 U. S. 135; Grant SmithPorter Co. v. Rohde, 257 U. S.469; Millers' Underwritersv. Braud, 270
U. S. 59; Ex parte Rosengrant, 213 Ala. 202, 104 So. 409, affirmed 273
U. S. 664; State IndustrialBoard of N. Y. v. Terry & Tench Co., 273
U. S. 639, reported as Lahti v. Terry & Tench Co., 240 N. Y. 292, 148
N. E. 527; Alaska Packers Assn. v. IndustrialAccident Commission,
276 U. S. 467. And note the dissenting view in Baizley Iron "Worksv.
Span, supra; U. S. Casualty Co. v. Taylor, 64 F. 2d 521, cert. den.:
290 U. S.639; New Amsterdam Casualty Co. v. McManigal, 87 F. 2d
332; In re Herbert, 283 Mass. 348, 186 N. E. 554. Cases aiding
respondent's view: Baizley Iron Works v. Span, 281 U. S.222; Gonsalves v. Morse Dry Dock Co., 266 U. S. 171; Nogueira v. N.. Y., N. H.
& H. R. Co., 281 U. S. 128; Northern Coal Co. v: Strand, 278 U. S,
142; Eniptoyers' Liability Assurance Co. v. Cook, 281 U. S. 233. For
a number of state cases supporting each position, see the Circuit Court
opinion in Motor Boat Sales v. Parker, 116 F. 2d 789. For discussion
of the problem, see Morrison, Workmen's Compensation and the
Maritime Law, 33 Yale L. J. 472.

254

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

317 U. S.

The very closeness of the cases cited above, and others
raising related points of interpretation, has caused much
serious confusion.' It must be remembered that under
the Jensen hypothesis, basic conditions are factual: Does
the state law "interfere with the proper harmony and
unifoimity of" maritime law? Yet, employees are asked
to determine with certainty before bringing their actions
that factual question over which courts regularly divide
among themselves and within their own membership. As
penalty for error, the injured individual may not only suffer serious financial loss through the delay and expense of
litigation, but discover that his claim has been barred by
the statute of limitations in the proper forum while he was
erroneously pursuing it elsewhere. See e. g., Ayres v.
Parker,15 F. Supp. 447. Such a result defeats the purpose
of the federal act, which seeks to give "to these hardworking men, engaged in a somewhat hazardous employ-.
ment, the justice involved in the modern principle of compensation," and the state Acts such as the one before us,
which aims at "sure and certain relief for workmen."
8 State industrial commissions have found real difficulty in determining their proper function in re.spect to maritime accidents. See the
discussion of this problem at the 19th Annual Meeting of the International Association of Industrial Accident Boards and Commissions,
Bull..577 of the Bureau of Labor Statistics, p. 119 (1933). A question
not mentioned above which has been considered in several cases is that
of the jurisdiction to which are to be assigned accidents affecting
persons loading boats while on the wharf; accidents affecting persons
loading vessel§ while on the vessel; accidents affectiig persons standing on either the yessel or the wharf who are knocked into the water.
Smith & Son v. Taylor, 276 U. S. .179; Vancouver S. S. Co. v. Rice,
288 U. S. 445; Minnie v. Port Huron Terminal Co., 295 U. S. 647.
4 For this expression of federal policy, see the report of the Senate
Committee on the Judiciary on the Longshoremen's and Harbor
Workers' Compensation Act, S. R. 973, 69th Cong., 1st Sess., 16. For
the expression of public policy of the Washington Act, see Rem. Rev.
Stat. (1932) § 7673.

DAVIS v. DEPARTMENT OF LABOR. '
249

255

Opinion of the Court.

The horns of the jurisdictional dilemma press as sharply
on employers as on employees. In the face of the cages
referred to above, the most competent counsel may be unable to predict on which side of the line particular employment will fall. The employer's contribution to a state
insurance fund may therefore wholly fail to protect him
against the liabilities for which it was specifically planned.
If this very case is affirmed, for example, the employer will
not only lose the benefit of the state insurance to which
he has been compelled to contribute and by which he has
thought himself secured against loss for accidents to his
employees; he must also, by virtue of the conclusion that
the employee was subject to the federal act at the time of
the accident, become liable for substantial additional payments. He will also be subject to fine and imprisonment
for the misdemeanor of having failed, as is apparently the
case, to secure payment for the employee under the federal
act. 33 U. S. C. §§ 938, 932.
We are not asked here to review and reconsider the constitutional implications of the Jensen line of decisions.
On the contrary, even the petitioner argues that such action might bring about still worse confusion in an already
uncertain field, and points out that state and federal agencies have made real -progress toward closing the gap.
There is much force in this argument. Since 1917, Congress and the states have sought to restore order out of the
confusion which resulted from the Jensen decision. That
success has not finally been achieved is illustrated by the
present case. The Longshoremen's Act, passed with
specific reference to the Jensen rule, provided a partial
solution.- The Washington statute represents a state
effort to clarify the situation. Both of these laws show
clearly that neither was intended to encroach on the field
occupied by the other. But the line separating the scope.
of the two being undefined and undefinable with exact

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

317 U. S.

precision, marginal employment may, by reason of particular facts, fall on either side. Overruling the Jensen
case would not solve this problem. In our decision in
Parker v. Motor Boat Sales, 314 U. S. 244, we held that
Congress has by the Longshoremen's Act accepted the
Jensenline of demarcation between state and federal jurisdiction. Obviously, the determination of the margin becomes no simpler because the standard applied is considered to be embedded in a statute rather than in the Constitution. Nor can we gain assistance in this circumstance
from the clause in the federal act which makes that act
exclusive. 33 U. S. C. § 905. That section gains meaning
only after a litigant has been found to occupy one side
or the other of the doubtful jurisdictional line, and is no
assistance in discovering on which side he can properly
be placed.
There is, in the light of the cases referred to, clearly
a twilight zone in which the employees must have their
rights determined case by case, and in which particular
facts and circumstances are vital elements. That zone
includes persons such as the decedent who are, as a matter
of actual administration, in fact protected under the state
compensation act.
Faced with this factual problem we must give greatindeed, presumptive-weight to the conclusigns of the
appropriate federal authorities and to the state statutes
themselves. Where there has been a hearing by the federal administrative agency entrusted with broad powers of
investigation, fact finding, determination, and award, our
task proves easy. There, we are aided by the provision
of the federal act, 33 U. S. C. § 920, which provides that,'
in proceedings under that act, jurisdiction is to be "presumed, in the absence of substantial evidence to the
contrary." Fact findings of the agency, where supported
by the evidence, are made final. Their conclusion that
a case falls within the federal jurisdiction is therefore

DAVIS v. DEPARTMENT OF LABOR.
249

Opinion of the Court.

entitled to great weight and will be rejected only in cases
of apparent error. It was under these circumstances
that we sustained the Commissioner's findings in Parker
:
v. MotorBoat Sales, supra.
In the instant case, we do not enjoy the benefit' of
federal administrative findings and must therefore look
solely to state sources for guidance. We find here a
state statute which purports to cover these persons, and
which indeed does cover them if the doubtful and difficult
factual questions to which--we have referred are decided
on the side of the constitutional power of the state. The
problem here is comparable to that in another field of
constitutional law in which courts are called upon to
determine whether particular state ,acts unduly burden
interstate commerce. In making the factual judgment
there, we have relied heavily on the presumption of constitutionality in favor of the state statute. South Carolina Highway Dept. v. Barnwell Bros., 303 U. S. 177, 188,
191.5
The benefit of a presumption is also given in cases of
conflict of state or state and' territorial workmen's compensation acts under the Full Faith and Credit clause.
There, as here, the issue is.a factual one arising from a
clash of interest of two jurisdictions. In such a Case, involving the question of whether the California or the
Alaska Workmen's Compensation Act should apply to a
5 See for other examples of our application of this principle,
Southern Ry. Co. v. King, 217 U. S. 524 (statute regulating operation
of interstate train at crossings); Pure Oil Co. v. Minnesota, 248 U. S.
158 (statute requiring the inspection of, certain petroleum products
vhile in interstate commerce); Interstate Busses Corp. v. Holyoke
Ry. Co., 273 U. S. 45 (requirement of certificate of convenience and
necessity, for interstate carrier); InterstateBusses Corp. v. Blodgett, 276
U. S. 245 (state statute taxing interstate carrier); Railway Express
Agency v. Virginia, 282 U. S. 440 (statute requiring corporation to
hold local charter). For state commerce regulations approved by
this Court, see the Barnwell case, supra,p. 188, n. 5.
503873-43----24

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
FRANE'uwimr,

J., concurring.

317 U. S.

resident of California injured in Alaska who brought suit
in California, this Court has said: "The enactment of the
present statute of California was within state power and
infringes no constitutional provision. Prima facie every
state is entitled to enforce in its own courts its own
statutes, lawfully enacted." Alaska Packers Assn. v. Industrial Commission, 294 U. S. 532, 547. And see Pacific
Ins. Co. v. IndustrialCommission, 306 U. S. 493, 503.
Not only does the state act in the instant case appear to
cover this employee, aside from the constitutional consideration, but no conflicting process of administration is
apparent. The federal authorities have taken no action
under the Longshoremen's Act, and it does not appear that
the employer has either made the special payments required or controverted payment in the manner prescribed
in the Act. 33 U. S. C. § 914 (b) and (d). Under all the
circumstances of this case, we will rely on the presumption
of constitutionality in favor of this state enactment; for
any contrary decision results in our holding the Washington act unconstitutional as applied to this petitioner. A
conclusion of unconstitutionality of a state statute can
not be rested on so hazardous a factual foundation here,
any more than in the other cases cited.
Giving the full weight to the presumption, and resolving
all doubts in favor of the Act, we hold that the Constitution is no obstacle to the petitioner's recovery. The case
is remanded for proceedings not inconsistent with this
opinion.
Reversed.
MR.

JUSTICE FRANKFURTER,

concurring:

Any legislative scheme that compensates workmen or
their families for industiial mishaps should be capable of
simple and dependable enforcement. That was the aim of
Congress when, with due regard for the diverse conditions
.in the several States, it afforded to harbor-workers the

DAVIS v. DEPARTMENT OF LABOR.
249

FRANKFURTER, J.,

259

concurring,

benefits of state workmen's compensation laws. Act of
October 6, 1917, c. 97, 40 Stat. 395, as amended by the
Act of June 10, 1922, c. 216, 42 Stat. 634. But Southern
Pacific Co. v. Jensen, 244 U. S. 205, and cases following,
frustrated this purpose.
Such a desirable end cannot now be achieved merely by
judicial repudiation of the Jensen doctrine. Too much
has happened in the twenty-five years since that ill-starred
decision. Federal and state enactments have so accommodated themselves to the complexity and confusion
introduced by the Jensen rulings that the resources of
adjudication can no longer bring relief from the difficulties
which the judicial process itself brought into being.
Therefore, until Congress sees fit to attempt another comprehensive solution of the problem, this Court can do no
more than bring some order out of the remaining judicial
chaos as marginal situations come before us. Because it
contributes to that end, I join in the Court's opinion.
Theoretic illogic is inevitable so long as the employee in
a situation like the present is permitted to recover either
under the federal act (bf. Parkerv. Motor Boat Sales, 314
U. S. 244; Northern Coal Co. v. Strand, 278 U. S. 142;
Nogueirav. N. Y., N. H. & H. R. Co., 281 U. S. 128; Employers' Liability Assurance Co. v. Cook, 281 U. S. 233) or
under a state statute (cf. Millers' Underwritersv. Braud,
270 U. S. 59; Alaska Packers Assn. v. Accident Comm'n,
276 U. S. 467). That is'the practical result, whether it be
reached by the Court's path or that apparently left open
under the Chief Justice's views. It is scant comfort to
dn employer that he may find he has committed a misdemeanor in not posting a bond as required by the federal act
because he may have been advised, not unnaturally, that
under the prior rulings of this Court the activities of his
employees were local in nature and hence he could be sued
only under state law.

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
STONE,

MR.

C. J., dissenting.

317 U. S.

CHIEF JUSTICE STONE:

Any effort to lessen the uncertainties and complexities
which have followed in the wake of the Jensen decision
and its successors during the past twenty-five years deserves sympathetic consideration. But in the present
state of the law, the Court's attempt to remove them by
construing state workmen's compensation acts and the
Longshoremen's and Harbor Workers' Act so that their
coverages overlap, can hardly be deemed to be within
judicial competence.
Section 3 of the Longshoremen's Act, 33 U. S. C. § 903,
authorizes payment of compensation "only . . . if recovery for the disability or death through workmen's compensation proceedings may not validly be provided by
State law." In Parker v. Motor Boat Sales, 314 U. S.
244, 250, we held, as a matter of construction of this clause
of the statute, that it had adopted the rationale of Jensen
and its followers, regardless of their constitutional validity, as "the measure by which Congress intended to mark
the scope of the Act they brought into existence." We
thus decided that, if by the application of the Jensen
doctrine recovery could not constitutionally be had under
state laws, the federal act conferred a right of recovery
whether or not the Jensen decision was sound.
The Court's opinion in the present case seems to proceed upon the assumption that, if petitioner had filed
.a claim under the federal act, and the federal commissioner
had awarded compensation, we would sustain his ruling,
although the Court now holds that the state authorities
erroneously concluded they were without constitutional'
power to make the award. Indeed, after our decision in
Parker v. Motor Boat Sales, supra, petitioner's tight of
recovery under the -federal act- can hardly be -doubted:
not only could a federal commissioner properly decide

DAVIS v. DEPARTMENT OF LABOR.
249

STONE,

261

C. J., dissenting.

in favor of jurisdiction, but any candid application of
the Jensen rule would seem to compel reversal of a federal
commissioner who declined jurisdiction. See Northern
Coal Co. v. Strand, 278 U. S.142, and Employers' Liability
Assurance Co. v. Cook, 281 U. S.233, both cited to justify the federal award in the Motor'Boat case, 314 U. S.
at 247.
Congress by the enactment of the Longshoremen's and
Harbor Workers' Act has left no room for an overlapping
dual system of the soft which the Court now espouses by
placing its decision on a new doctrine that recovery under
either the state or the federal act is to be sustained if the
case is thought a close one. Section 5 of the Act, 33 U. S.
C. § 905, provides that the employer's liability under it
"shall be exclusive and in place of all other liability of such
employer to the employee, his legal representative, husband or wife, parents, dependents, next of kin, and anyone. otherwise entitled to recover damages from such
employer at-law or in admiralty on account of such injury
or death . . ." See Nogueira v. N. Y., N. H. & H. R. Co.,
281 U. S. 128, 137. I cannot say that this section does not
mean what it says. If there is liability under the federal
act, that liability is exclusive. It follows that, in any case
in which *compensation might have been awarded under
the federal act, a recovery under state law is in plain derogation of the terms of the federal statute, as construed
in the Motor Boat case, supra.' Congress has made it our
duty, before we sanction a recovery under state law, to
ascertain that an award under the federal act can not be
had.
The Washington statute explicitly, recognizes the exclusiveness of the
federal statute, for in its coverage of employees engaged in maritime
occupations it is made applicable only to those "for whom no right or
obligation exists under the maritime laws." § 7693a.

262

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Sm-, C. J., dissenting.

317 U. S.

The proposition that an employee in a "twilight zone"
(where it is doubtful whether the federal or a state act
applies) can recover under either act, not only controverts
the Wordsof the statute but also imposes an unauthorized
burden on the employer. Besides being subjected to a
liability which the statute forbids, he is compelled, in order
to protect himself in the large number of cases in which
the Court apparently would allow recovery under either
act, to comply with both. Under the federal act, the employer must-post security for compensation in a manner
specified in § 32, 33 U. S. C. § 932, and failure to do so is
a misdemeanor, § 38, 33 U. S. C. § 938, punishable by fine
and imprisonment. Under state acts, there is an obligation to contribute insurance premiums, or take some comparable step, to say nothing of penal sanctions which a
state may impose.
Congress has directed that if the case is within the federal statute, the employer shall be relieved of all other
obligation. But in order to relieve the employee in a
doubtful case of the necessity of filing two claims, one
under each act, a double burden is imposed on the employer by an inadmissible construction of the federal act.
Tfe dual system of presumptions, which are to operate in
favor of the employee, but apparently never against him,
will serve to sustain an exercise of either state of federal
jurisdiction in every case within the so-called "twilight
zone." But this is accomplished only by depriving
employers of the immunity which Congress sought to
confer when it set up a system in which federal and
state acts are made mutually exclusive.
Although the basic question in these cases is said to
be "factual," the twilight zone doctrine does not reveal
how-in view of the great weight which is to be given the
federal commissioner's finding, as in the Motor Boat casewe can in this case disregard the findings of four state

DAVIS v. DEPARTMENT OF LABOR.
249

STONE,

263

C. J., dissenting.

tribunals,2 or what the function of this Court is to be in
cases where the federal and the state commissioners both
find against jurisdiction, or how the line which marks the
doubtful case is to be drawn more readily than that
which, under the Jensen doctrine, separates state from
federal power.
Notwithstanding the ruling in the Motor Boat case
that Congress had adopted the Jensen boundary of federal
jurisdiction, there are in the present case special circumstances which take it out of that ruling and leave us free
to reconsider Jensen's constitutional basis. The exclusive
liability section of the federal statute contains a proviso
that if the employer fails to give security for payment of
compensation, as required, then the employee may elect
to claim compensation under the federal statute, "or
to maintain an action at law or in admiralty." The purpose of this proviso seems to be to preserve to the employee
all remedies which he might otherwise have had, in the
event that the employer does not give the prescribed
security. Since this record does not show that the employer complied, petitioner is free to pursue any available
remedy which the Constitution permits and which the
state may choose to afford.
Only if the Court were to overrule the Jensen case in
its constitutional aspects could I join in a reversal of the
judgment here. If we are to continue to apply the Jensen
2 The

state supervisor found that "after thorough investigation it
has been determined that the work which the claimant was doing at the
time of the said fatal accident does not come under the jurisdiction
of the workmen's compensation act, but is maritime in character"
and "that the alleged injury was sustained on board a vessel in
navigable waters and was therefore under admiralty jurisdiction."
His finding and decision were sustained by the joint board of the state
-department of labor and industries, the state superior court, and the
state supreme court.

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Syllabus.

317 U. S.

doctrine, even when not required to do so by the federal
act, then our own decisions, including the recent Motor
Boat case, preclude a reversal of the Washington courts.'
Escape from Jensen's embarrassments by the adoption of
the twilight zone doctrine, in disregard of the jurisdictional command of the federal statute, is plainly not permissible. I am not persuaded that it is practicable.
DEPARTMENT OF BANKING OF NEBRASKA, RECEIVER, v. PINK, SUPERINTENDENT OF INSURANCE OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
ON PETITION FOR WRIT OF CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME
COURT OF NEW YORK.

No. 466.

Decided December 21, 1942.

1. After a final judgment by the New York Court of Appeals, entered
in the lower court upon remittitur, an amendment merely certifying
that a federal question was presented and decided does not extend
the time-three months from the rendition of the judgment of the
higher court-within which petition for certiorari can be filed in
this Court. P. 266.
2. Although a writ of certiorari to review a judgment of the highest
court of a State may-properly run to a lower court where the record
is physically lodged, and where under New York practice a judgment
is entered upon the remittitur of the Court of Appeals, it is nevertheless immaterial whether the record is physically lodged in the one
court or the other, since this Court has ample power to obtain it
from either. P. 267.
3. The time within which application to review a final judgment of
the New York Court of Appeals may be made to this Court runs
from the date of the rendition of the judgment in that court, and
not from the date when, under the local practice, judgment was entered on remittitur in the lower state court. P. 267.
4. A judgment or order of the Court of Appeals of New York is final
for purposes of review by this Court when the record reveals that
it leaves nothing to be done by the lower court except the ministerial act of entering judgment on the remittitur. P. 267.

