456

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Syllabus.

317 U. S.

more important here than was the collision in Kalb v.
Feuerstein,supra. In this case, as in other situations (In
re Devlin, 180 F. 170, 172) it is the Bankruptcy Act, not
local probate law, which must control the administration
of the estate. The bankruptcy power is supreme. Sec.
8 is a valid exercise of that power. The result is that
General Order 50 (9) must give way insofar as it is inconsistent with this result. For those rules are intended
merely "to execute the act" (West Co. v. Lea, 174 U. S.
590, 599), not to "authorize additions to its substantive
provisions." Meek v. Centre County Banking Co., 268
U. S. 426, 434.
-MR. JUSTICE BLACK and MR. JUSTICE MURPHY join in
this dissent.

PUBLIC UTILITIES COMMISSION OF OHIO ET AL.
UNITED FUEL GAS CO. ET AL.

V.

APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF OHIO.
No. 87.

Argued December 8, 1942.-Decided January 11, 1943.

Upon an appeal to the Public Utilities Commission of Ohio from a
municipal ordinance establishing, in 1932, rates for natural gas sold in
the city by a local utility, the Commission asserted jurisdiction to
fix the rates paid by the local utility to an unaffiliated company for
natural gas transported and sold in interstate commerce, and, in
1935, issued orders preliminary to fixing such rates. In a suit in
equity begun by the interstate company prior to, and decided subsequently to, the Natural Gas Act of 1938, the federal District Court
enjoined the enforcement of the orders. The state Commission had
held no hearing, and had made no findings, with respect to the lawfulness or reasonableness of the interstate rates. Held:
.1. Considerations of equity require the determination here of
the question of local law as to the power of the state Commission
to fix retroactively the rates to-be charged by the interstate company
for natural gas transported and sold in interstate commerce to the
local utility. _P. 462.

PUBLIC UTILITIES COMM'N v. GAS CO.
.456

457

Opinion of the Court.

Where, as here, no state court ruling on local law could settle
the federal questions that necessarily remain, and where, as here,
the litigation has already been in the federal courts for an inordinately long time, considerations of -equity require that, the litigation
be brought to an end as quickly as possible.
2. Under the law of Ohio, the state Commission, in the circumstances of this case, is without power to fix retroactively the rates
to be charged by the interstate company for natural gas sold in
interstate commerce to the local utility. P. 465.
3. The power to fix rates for natural gas transported and sold in
interstate commerce has. been vested by the Natural Gas Act of
1938 in the Federal. Power Commission exclusively. P. 468.
4. The Natural Gas Act of 1938 does not bar a state commission,
in the appropriate exercise of its jurisdiction, from compelling the
production of data in the possession of the interstate company and
relevant to the proceeding before the Commission. P. 468.
5. The injunction decree of the District Court can not, in the
circumstances of this case, be set aside as an improper exercise of
its equitable jurisdiction. P. 468.
6. The Johnson Act of May 14, 1934, is inapplicable here. P. 469.
7* The District Court's decree is to be read as an injunction
against enforcement of the state Commission's orders only in so far
as they assume jurisdiction to fix the rates to be charged for natural
gas transported and sold in interstate commerce. P. 470.
46 F. Supp. 309, affirmed.

from a decree of a District Court of three judges
enjoining enforcement of certain orders of the state
Commission.
APPEAL

Mr. Kenneth L. Sater, with whom Mr. Thomas J. Herbert, Attorney General of Ohio, was on the brief, for
appellants.
Mr. HaroldA. Ritz, with whom Mr. Freeman T, Eagleson was on the brief, for appellees.
MR. JusTicE FRANKFURTER

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This is an appeal from a decree of the District Court
for the Southern District of Ohio enjoining the enforce-

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

317 U. S.

ment against appellee, United Fuel Gas Company (hereafter called United), of orders made by the Public Utilities
Commission of Ohio, 46 F. Supp. 309.
The facts are not in dispute. The Portsmouth Gas
Company, a public utility, sells natural gas at retail to
the people of Portsmouth, Ohio. It purchases its entire
supply of gas from United, a West Virginia corporation.
The gas is cqnveyed through pipelines in a continuous
flow from points of production in West Virginia and Kentucky into Ohio, and there delivered to the Portsmouth
Gas Company. On February 24, 1932, the City of Portsmouth, under the authority given it by § 614-44 of the
Ohio General Code, established the rates to be charged
to Portsmouth consumers for natural gas distributed by
the Portsmouth Gas Company. This ordinance did not
purport to fix the charges made by United for the gas
sold to the Portsmouth Gas Company. Claiming that
the rates fixed by the city were unreasonable and unjust,
the Portsmouth Gas Company challenged the ordinance
before the Public Utilities Commission of Ohio. The
Commission found that the complaint was justified, and
that reasonable and just rates should be substituted for
those prescribed by the ordinance. But it also found that
it could not determine such rates in the absence of proof
that the charges which United exacted from the Portsmouth Gas Company were just and reasonable. The
Commission ruled that the sale of gas by United to the
Portsmouth Gas Company for resale to consumers in
Portsmouth was a public utility service within the meaning of § 614-2 of the Ohio General Code, and that the rates
to be charged for such service were subject to its jurisdiction. Accordingly, on April 18, 1935, the Commission
ordered that United prepare and present "all pertinent and
relevant testimony and exhibits tending to prove a reasonable and just rate to be charged by it to the Portsmouth

PUBLIC UTILITIES COMM'N v. GAS CO
456

Opinion of the Court.

Gas Company for the furnishing of natural ga for-distribution within the City of Portsmouth, Ohio."
United thereupon filed a petition for rehearing with' the
Commission. The petition asserted that the gas sold by
United to the Portsmouth Gas Company was in interstate
commerce, that the two companies were wholly independ-"
ent of one another, and that the Commission therefore
went beyond the power of the state. in asserting jurisdietfion to fix.the rates to be charged for gas sold by United
to /the Portsmouth Gas Company. -United recognized,
however, the authority of the Commission to compel it
to produce evidence in its possession relevant to a determination of just and reasonable rates to be-charged by
the Portsmouth Gas Company for gas sold to its customers. This proffer of testimony by United, which was not
accepted by the Commission, is relevant to the disposition of this controversy: "It [United] does not question.
the right of said Commission. to call upon this petitioner
for such evidence and facts as may be in its possession
which may show or tend to show what would be a reasonable rate to be charged for gas to the consumers in the
City of Portsmouth, and it offers'to furnish to the Commission such facts and evidence as may be desired, or to
permit any officers or agents of the Public Utilities Commission of Ohio to ascertain such facts and evidence' as
may be desired from its records and books for the purpose
aforesaid, but denies and protests the' right or power of
said Commission to fix the rates at which petitioner shall
sell the gas which it transports into the State of Ohio and
delivers to the Portsmouth Gas, Company."
On May 29, 1935, the Commission denied this petition.
Its order expressly reaffirmed its previous assertion of
jurisdiction to fix the rates to, be charged for the sale of
gas by United tothe Portsmouth Gas Company.'
""The Commission further finds that the
"furnishng
of natural gas
by the United Fuel Gas Company to the Portsmouth Gas Company

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

317 U. S.

This suit to restrain- enforcement of the two orders of
the Commission followed. In its original bill, filed July
3, 1935, United alleged that the Commission's orders were
an unconstitutional attempt to regulate interstate commerce; that compliance with the orders would entail an
expenditure of more than one hundred thousand dollars
in order to make the usual appraisals required in determining a rate base; that disobedience to the orders would
subject United and its agents to fines of a thousand dollars
a day. These allegations were denied by the Commission.
But on September 23, 1935, the parties stipulated that
"it will cost the plaintiff a substantial sum of money, in
excess of three thousand dollars, to comply with the Commission's order."
The bill was still pending at the time of the enactment
bf the Natural Gas Act of June 21, 1938, 52 Stat. 821,
15 U. S. C. § 717, and the relevance of that statute to the
present controversy was duly set forth in an amended
bill filed March 8, 1939. The suit did not come to issue
for more than two years thereafter. The death of one of
the members of the District Court, necessitating reargument and reconsideration of the case, may explain, at least
in part, why a case of such public importance should have
proceeded at such a leaden-footed pace.2 It was not until
for resale to consumers within the City of Portsmouth, Ohio, is a public
utility service within the meaning of Section 614-2, General Code of
Ohio; that the rates to be charged the efor are subject to the jurisdiction of this Commission; that such jurisdiction includes the right to
regulate the rate or price to be'charged for such service, and that the
exercise of such jurisdiction is necessary for a-determination of the
matters and things herein ateissue before this Commission."
2 The bill was filed on July 2,1935, and on the .same day a temporary
restraining order was issued by District Judge Hough. The case was
submitted to a District Court ot three judges on September 23 ')35,
but on November 19, 1935, before it was decided, Judge Hough 'iAn amended complaint was filed on November 20, 1936, and a second
amended complaint on March 8, 1939, to which answer was made on
April 25, 1939. A third amended complaint filed on April 8, 1941,

PUBLIC UTILITIES COMM'N v. GAS CO.
456

461

Opinion of the Court.

January 16, 1942, that the decrce now under review was
entered. The District Court held that, regardless of what
the situation might have been in the absence of the
Natural Gas Act, that statute deprived the Ohio Commission of power to regulate the rates to be charged for gas
transported and sold in interstate commerce. And so the
court enjoined the enforcement of the Commission's orders
against United.
The Commission contends that the issues of this case
lie outside the scope of the Natural Gas Act because the
Commission was concerned with the establishment of
rates for the sale of gas by United to Portsmouth Gas
Company prior to the effective date of the federal Act,
and, more particularly, to fix rates retroactive to February 24, 1932, when the city of Portsmouth prescribed
the rates for gas sold'to consumers by the Portsmouth
Gas Company in the ordinance which gave rise to the
proceedings before the Commission. This contention, if
correct, would require us to consider whether the Commerce Clause, of its own force, invalidated the Commission's assertion of jurisdiction over the rates upon gas
shipped by United into Ohio.
was followed on April 24, 1941, by a motion to dismiss which was
denied on July 8, 1941. On July 28, 1941, an application for leave
to file an answer was made; this application was granted on August
4, 1941, and an answer was filed the same day. The cause having
finally been submitted, the District Court filed an opinion on October
2, 1941, finding that the plaintiff was entitled to injunctive relief. And
:on January 16, 1942, the decree now under review was entered.
The 1942 Annual Report of the Director of the Administrative
Office of the United States Courts (p. 7) aiscloses that "The median
time which elapsed from filing to disposition of civil cases terminated
in the district courts during the year 1942, which had been tried to court
or jury, excluding land condemnation, habeas corpus, and forfeiture
proceedings, was 10.7 months; and from issue to trial it was 6.1
months ....
This compares with periods of 10.2 months and 5.3
months, respectively, in 1941."

' 462

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

317 U. S.

But we must reject the contention of the Commission.
It rests upon the assumption that under the Ohio law the
state Commission can retroactively fix the rates of United.
For it must be borne in mind that the ultimate issue in
this suit is the assertion by the Ohio Commission in 1935
of power to fix appellee's rates; that the Commission has
not yet exercised the power which it thus asserted; that
it has not made the inquiry and the findings which must
precede the establishment of new rates; that United has
not posted any bond to secure refunds it might be ordered
to make; that the Commission's jurisdiction to fix United's
rates was denied by the District Court in, its decree of
January 16, 1942; and that, so far as rates in the past are
concerned, the power of the Ohio Commission (apart
from any limitations imposed by federal law,' whether
constitutional or statutory) is dependent upon the authority possessed by it under Ohio law. To sustain the
Commission on this phase of the case we would have to
find that it was the law of Ohio that the Commission had
power to fix rates upon gas sold by United to the Portsmouth Gas Company which would be retroactive to February 24, 1932, when the city of Portsmouth prescribed
the rates upon gas sold by the Portsmouth Gas Company
to its customers.
Unfortunately we are not aided by a finding of the
lower court on this question of state law. Since, the
.District Court was composed of three Ohio judges,
they, may perhaps have taken. Ohio law on this point so
much for granted as not to require statement. Under
ordinary circumstances we would prefer to leave to others
the' task of formulating local law. But this case has
already been too long in the federal courts, and we do
not think it comports with the public interest to remit the
controversy for explicit findings by the .District Court
as to the power of the Ohio Commission to fix rates retroactively.' The situation here is quite different from Rail-

PUBLIC UTILITIES COMM'N v. GAS CO.
456

463

Opinion of the Court.

road Comm'n v. Pullman Co., 312 U. S. 496. Where the
disposition of a doubtful question of local law might terminate the entire controversy and thus make it unnecessary to decide a substantial constitutional question, considerations of equity justify a rule of abstention. But
where, as here, no state court ruling on local law could
settle the federal questions that necessarily remain, and
where, as here, the litigation has already been in the
federal courts an inordinately long time, considerations
of equity require that the litigation be brought to an end
as quickly as possible.
The proceeding before the state Commission arose under
§ 614-44 et seq. of the Ohio *GeneralCode (Page, 1926),
dealing with appeals to the Commission from municipal
ordinances establishing rates to be charged by local utilities. Whenever such an appeal is taken, as it was taken
here by the Portsmouth Gas Company, the Commission
is required to hold a hearing. § 614-44. If, after such
hearing, the Commission finds that the rate fixed by the
ordinance is unjust or unreasonable, it must determine
the just and reasonable rate .to be charged "during the
period so fixed by ordinance . . . and order the same substituted for the [ordinance] rate . . ." § 614-46. It is
clear that under this section of the statute the Commission
can establish just and reasonable rates in lieu of those fixed
by the ordinance, and can make its order effective retroactively by ordering refunds of charges in excess of the
substituted rates. In re Columbia Gas & Fuel Co., 1941
Riep. Ohio NJ. C. 22; In re Wheeling Electric Co., 1941 id.
69; In re East Ohio Gas Co., 1939 id. 15. The Commission undoubtedly has power, therefore, to establish a just
and reasonable rate, retroactive to February 24, 1932,-for
gas sold by the Portsmouth Gas Company to the people
of that community.
But whether the Commission has similar power with
respect torates for gas sold by United to the Ports-

464

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

317 U. S.

mouth Gas Company-and that is the controlling inquiry
here-is an entirely separate question. Section 614-46
is inapplicable because the rates to be established would
not be in lieu of rates fixed by ordinance. The Commission's authority to inquire into the reasonableness of the
rates charged by United for gas sold to the Portsmouth
Gas Company is to be found in §§ 614-21 and 614-23,
which provide as follows: "Upon complaint in writing,
against any public utility, by any person, firm or corporation, or upon the initiative or complaint of the commission that any rate... is in any respect unjust
unreasonable, unjustly discriminatory, or unjustly preferential or in violation of law, . . . the commission shall
notify the public utility" and hold a hearing. If, after such
hearing, the Commission finds that the rate or charge is
unjust, unreasonable, or otherwise unlawful, it must "fix
and determine the just and reasonable rate, fare, charge,
toll, rental or service to be thereafterrendered, charged, demanded, exacted or collected for the performance or rendition of the service, and order the same substituted therefor." § 614-23 (italics added). The statute in terms thus
gives the Commission power to prescribe such rates prospectively only. If, after notice, and hearing, the Commission finds rates to be unlawful, it can then fix the just
and reasonable rates "to be thereafter" charged. The
establishment of new rates must be preceded by a finding that the old rates are unjust and unreasonable, and
the new rates are prospective as of the date they are fixed.
There is no basis in the statute for concluding that the
Commission's orders can be retroactive to the date when
the Commission's inquiry into the'rates was begun; on the
contrary, the explicit language of the statute precludes
such a construction.
Its annual reports show that the Commission has consistently followed what would seem to be the plain mandate of the statute. See, e. g., In re Amherst Water Works

PUBLIC UTILITIES COMM'N v. GAS CO.
456

Opinion of the Court.

Co., 1941 Rep. Ohio P. U. C. 88; In re Cincinnati Gas &
Electric Co., 1940 id. 14; In re Union Gas & Electric Co.,
1936 id. 67. Whatever doubts there may have been about
the matter appear to have been. removed by the decision
of the Supreme Court of Ohio in GreatMiami Valley Taxpayers Assn. v. Public Utilities Commission, 131 Ohio St.
285, 2 N. E. 2d 777, which affirmed a ruling of the Commission that "it was without power to make a refund in
a proceeding instituted under and by virtue of the provisions of Section 614-23, General Code." 131 Ohio St.
285, 286. It is not surprising, therefore, that counsel for
the Commission did not contend before us that the Commission has power under Ohio law to establish retroactively just and reasonable rates to be charged by United
for gas sold to the Portsmouth Gas Company. Our examination of the relevant Ohio materials convinces us that
the Commission has not been given such authority.
The Commission in this case has not yet done more than
assert its jurisdiction over Unitdd's rates. It has not yet
held a hearing upon the reasonableness of United's present
rates; it has made no finding whether these rates are unlawful and whether new rates should be substituted; it
has not entered upon an inquiry to determine what rates
would be just and reasonable. As of the date of the enactment of the Natural Gas Act, therefore, the proceeding
before the Commission, so far as United was concerned,
was still in an embryonic stage. And we can find no provision of Ohio law which would authorize the Commission
to enter orders fixing United's rates retroactive to any
date prior to June 21, 1938, when the federal Act became
law. The Commission's orders must be treated here,
therefore, for purposes of determining whether they are
in conflict with federal law, constitutional or statutory,
as if they had been made after the enactment of the
Natural Gas Act. The case cannot now be disposed of on
the basis that would have governed had it come here in
503873-43-37

466

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

317 U. S.

1935. To inquire into the powers the Commission had
that year, or any other year prior to the enactment of the
Natural Gas Act in 1938, would be to ascertain an abstract
question of law. The question we are called upon to
decide, and it is the only question, is whether the District
Court properly entered the decree under review. That
decree was entered on January 16, 1942, after the enactment of the Natural Gas Act, and after United, in filing
an amended bill of complaint, based its claim for relief
upon that Act. It is familiar doctrine that an appeal in
an equity suit opens up inquiry as of the time of the ultimate decision. To decide this appeal on the basis of a
legal situation that ceased to exist not only prior to the
taking of this appeal but also before issue was finally
joined in the District Court, would be to make a gratuitous advisory judgment. It is the case that is lbere now
that must be decided, and it must be decided on the basis
of the circumstances that exist now. Cf. Vandenbark v.
Owens-Rlinois Co., 311 U. S. 538, 542-43, and cases there
cited.
And as to rates effective in the future we agree with the
District Court that the Natural Gas Act of 1938 governs.
Congress by that Act, the constitutionality and scope of
which we canvassed last Term in Federal Power Comm'n
V. Pipeline Co., 315 U. S. 575, and Illinois Gas Co. v.-Public
Service Co., 314 U. S. 498, 'pre~mlited the regulatory
powers over the transportation and sale of natural gas
in interstate commerce. Section 1, after declaring that
"Federal regulation in matters relating .to the transportation of natural gas and the sale thereof in interstate
and foreign commerce is necessary in the public interest,"
makes the Act applicable to "the transportation of natural
gas in interstate commerce, to the sale in ir~ters.tate commerce of natural gas for resale for ultimate 'ptiblic consumption for. domestic, commercial, indus4ul, or any
other use, and to natural-gas companies engaged in sueh

PUBLIC UTILITIES COMM'N v. GAS CO.
456

Opinion of the Court.

transportation or sale." Rates and charges in connection
with the sale or transportation, of gas in interstate commerce are required to be "just and reasonable." § 4 (a).
Companies subject to the Act must, under § 4 (c), file with
the Federal Power Commission schedules of rates and
charges, and no changes in such schedules can be made
'without notice to the Commission and the public. § 4 (d).
Acting upon either its own motion or complaint of a state
or municipality, or a state regulatory body or gas distrib•uting company, the Commission can inquire into the
legality of rates and charges of companies subject to its
jurisdiction, and can determine the just and reasonable
rates and charges thereafter to be observed. § 5 (a).
It is clear, as the legislative history of the Act amply
demonstrates, that Congress meant to create a comprehensive scheme of regulation which would be complementary
in its operation to that of the states, without any confusion of functions. The Federal Power Commissibn would
exercise jurisdiction over matters in interstate and foreign
commerce, to the extent defined in the Act, and local matters would be left to the state regulatory bodies. Congress
contemplated a harmonious, dual system of regulation of
the natural gas industry-federal and state regulatory
bodies operating side by side, each active in its own sphere.
See H. Rep. No. 2651, 74th Cong., 2d Sess., pp. 1-3;
H. Rep. No. 709, 75th Cong., 1st Sess., pp. 1-4; Sen. Rep.
No. 1162, 75th Cong., 1st Sess.
Upon the undisputed facts in, this record, United is
plainly subject to the-exclusive jurisdiction of the Federal
Power Commission with respect to the rates and charges
for natural gas transported by. it from West Virginia
and Kentucky to Ohio. And, indeed, in compliance with
the Act, United has submitted itself to the jurisdiction
of the federal agency and filed schedules of its rates and
charges. No changes in such schedules can be made without notice to the Power Commission. That Commission,

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

317 U. S.

on its own motion, can inquire into the lawfulness of such
rates; if the public interest so requires, rates found to be
just and reasonable may be substituted. It is indisputable, therefore, that if the Ohio Commission today made
the orders complained of in this suit, it would be intruding in a domain reserved to the federal regulatory body.
The power to fix rates for natural gas transported and
sold in interstate commerce has been entrusted solely to
the Federal Power Commission. It does not follow, of
course, that the Act bars a state commission, in the appropriate exercise of its jurisdiction, from compelling the production of evidence relevant to the proceeding before it.
But the orders before us went beyond this limited purpose.
They undertook to assert a jurisdiction which the state
body does not possess. In our conclusion regarding Ohio
law, we hold only that the assertion of power by the Public
Utilities Cominission of Ohio must be construed in the
light of its authority under the Ohio statutes. And, as
'thus construed, the order cannot be reconciled with the
.action of Congress in enacting the Natural Gas Act of
1938. Because the orders are not an assertion of jurisdiction to fix the rates of United prior to the enactment of
the federal Act, it is unnecessary to decide whether, in
the absence of federal statute, the state, could, succdssfully attempt to fix the rates charged by an interstate
natural gas company for gas transported and sold from
one state to another.
* SinceI these orders are invalid insofar as they inpfnge
upon an authority which 'Congress has now vested solely
in the Federal Power Commission, the decree below must
stand unless'we can fairly conclude that it was an abuse
of discretion for the District Court to grant relief by way
.of injunction. It is perhaps unnecessary at this late date
to repeat the admonition that the federal courts should
be wary of interrupting the prioceedings-of state administrative tribunals by use of theextraordinary writ of in-,

PUBLIC UTILITIES COMM'N v. GAS CO.
456

.469

Opinion of the Court.

junction. But this, too, is a rule of equity and not to be
applied in blind disregard of fact. And what are the
commanding circumstailces of the present case? First,
and most important, the orders of the state Commission
are on their face plainly invalid. No inquiry beyond the
orders themselves and the undisputed facts which underlie them is necessary in order to discover that they are in
conflict with the federal Act. If, therefore, United complies with these orders, it will be put to the expenditures
incident to ascertaining the base for rate-fixing purposesexpenses which may ultimately be borne by the consuming public and which Congress, by conferring exclusive
jurisdiction upon the federal regulatory agency, necessarily intended to avoid. If United does not comply with
the orders, it runs the risk of incurring heavy fines and
penalties or, at the least, in provoking needless, wasteful
litigation. In either event, enforcement of the Commission's orders would work injury not assessable in money
damages, not only to the appellee but to the public interest
which Congress deemed it wise to safeguard by enacting
the Natural Gas Act. In these circumstances, we cannot
set aside the decree of the District Court as an improper
exercise of its equitable jurisdiction. Petroleum Co. v.
Public Service Commission, 304 U. S. 209, was a vexy
different case. There the regulation of intrastate rates
alone was involved, no conflict between federal and, state
authorities was in issue,. and the appeal to equity sought
to anticipate the appropriate exhaustion of, the administrative process.
Two minor objections to the jurisdiction of the court
below need not detain us long. The Johnson Act of May
14, 1934, 48 Stat. 775, 28 U. S. C. § 41 (1), is inapplicable
here because the orders'of the state Commission "interfere. With interstate commerce" to the extent that they
constitute an attempt to regulate matters in interstate
commerce which Comgress has lodged exclusively with the

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
BLACK,

J., dissenting.

317 U. S.

Federal Power Commission. And, unlike the appellant in
Natural Gas Co. v. Slattery, 302 U. S. 300, 310-11, United
exhausted all administrative remedies available to it
before bringing this suit. In its petition for rehearing,
United requested the state Commission to modify its
original order of April 19, 1935, so as to strike out those
portions which we now hold to be in conflict with the
federal Act. Only after the denial of this petition did
United seek relief in the courts.
As we construe the decree of the District Court, it does
not prevent the Public Utilities Commission of Ohio from
requiring United to produce data in its possession which
may be relevant to a determination of the just and reasonable rates to be charged by the Portsmouth Gas Company .for gas sold to the consumers of that city. As has
already been noted, United, in its petition for rehearing
before the Commission, offered to produce such evidence.
And appafently throughout this entire litigation it has
held itself ready to do so. The orders of the Commission
were assailed only insofar as they subjected United to the
jurisdiction of the state Commission with respect to rates
for gas imported by it into Ohio. We therefore read the
decree of the District Court as an injunction against
enforcement of the Ohio Commission's orders onlyto the
extent that this assumption by the Commission of ratemaking power over United has been resisted. So read,
the decree is
Affirmed.
MR. JusTICE BLACK dissenting, with whom MR. JUSTICE
DOUGLAS

and

MR. JUSTICE MURPHY

concur.

As a result of this decision, delays incident to obtaining
a federal injunction have made wholly futile the diligent
efforts of the State of Ohio to fi'x reasonable gas rates for

PUBLIC UTILITIES COMM'N v. GAS CO.
456

BLACK,

J., dissenting.

the people of Portsmouth, Ohio.' I cannot agree with the
suggestion implied here that this results from any cause
other than the unwarranted interposition by courts into
the business of rate making. Cf. McCart v. Indianapolis
Water Co., 302 U. S. 419, 435. Here eight years after
the Ohio Public Utilities Commission made United a party
defendant in order to fix rates "to be charged" by it, Ohio
is told that Uhited may keep any sum collected, no matter
how unjust or unreasonable the rates charged may have
been; and Ohio's citizens are denied the right to recoup
possible losses because the Commission "has not made the
inquiry and the findings which must precede the establishment of new rates." There is one reason, and only one
reason, why the Commission has not made such inquiry
and findings-before any step could be taken toward
establishing a final rate order, and even before a single
witness could be heard, this federal injunction stopped
the state Commission in its tracks. Had the Commission
proceeded to make inquiry and findings in the face of the
injunction it would have risked the possibility that its
members, agents, and attorneys could have been seized
and fined or imprisoned for contempt of court. Ex parte
Young, 209 U. S.123. If it be true, which I think dubious,
that under Ohio law rates can never be fixed as of the
date a proceeding begins even though delays are the
consequence of improvident federal injunctions, such a
legal situation makes it all the more essential that the
court below should have abstained as a matter of "eaui'The suggestion in the opinion of the Court that the State is free to
continue its efforts to control the rate of the local company, Portsmouth
Gas, so long as it does not interfere with United, the company which
supplies Portsmouth Gas, accords a privilege of little meaning. The
price charged Portsmouth Gas by United is about 70% of the amount
which the City Council considered a reasonable rate for Portsmouth
Gas to charge. It is obvious that the Portsmouth Gas rate cannot
be materially affected without in turn altering the United charge.

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
BLACK,

J., dissenting.

317 U. S.

table fitness or propriety," Prentis v. Atlantic Coast Line,
211 U. S. 210, 229, from tying the Commission's hands
and barring it from making the final order here held to be
vital. To stop these proceedings at the threshold and
thus bar all possible relief for the years during which the
litigation crawled along its interminable course seems to
me far less justifiable than the action condemned by this
Court in Petroleum Co. v. Public Service Commission, 304
U. S. 209.
The federal action halting the Ohio rate-making process since 1935 is justified wholly on the ground that the
Natural Gas Act, passed in 1938, bars regulation by Ohio
of United's rates sincc 1938, while Ohio law is said to
bar any regulation prior to 1938 because no final order
has yet been made by the Public Utilities Commission.
The Court refuses to hold categorically that Ohio law
nullifies this order, asserting instead that Ohio law requires us to interpret the Commission's order as not attempting to lead to rate making for the period 1935-1938.
This will doubbless prove some surprise to the Commission, which made the order in question in 1935, and which
has argued both here and below that the Natural Gas
Act is irrelevant because it took effect subsequent to the
'period in which the Commission is now interested.
Whether the Court considers that Ohio law bars the Commission from making a valid order, or whether it uses its
knowledge of Ohio law to tell the Commission what the
Commission has attempted, is immaterial-in either case
we press our conception of Ohio law on the Ohioans.
But the local law question has never been squarely decided in Ohio. That question is whether United can successfully, by taking full advantage of the delays of the
federal judicial system, jockey the City of Portsmouth
and the State of Ohio into such a position that no one
can now determine what were reasonable rates for the
period prior to 1938.

PUBLIC UTILITIES COMM'N v. GAS CO.
456

473

BLAcK, J., dissenting.

Reference to state cases and particularly to Great Miami
Taxpayers Assn. v. Public Utilities Commission, 131 Ohio
St. 285, 2 N. E.2d 777, does not solve this problem, for, in
the first place, under the state law all appeals to the Ohio
Supreme Court are explicitly conditioned upon the posting of bond by the utility to secure payment of any damage resulting from delay. § 548 Ohio Gen. Code. Such
security for which the state law provided should have been
exacted by the lower court here, Inland Steel Co. v.United
States, 306 U. S.153, 156; cf. United States v. Morgan, 307.
U. S.183, 197. "It is especially fitting that equity exert
its full strength in order to protect from loss a state which
has been injured by reason of a suspension of enforcement
of state laws imposed by equity itself." Public Service
Commission v. BrashearFrei(.,tt Lines, 312 U. S.621, 630.
The Ohio Supreme Court might well-conclude that this
failure of the court below to require appropriate security
justifies the Commission in establishing a rate for a period
prior to 1938. In addition, the very fact that the State
Public Utilities Commission and the legal representatives
of the State of Ohio have vigorously fought this case for
four years since the passage of the Natural Gas Act is indication that they. at least do not suppose that the State is
,powerless, to fix rates as of the date United was made a
party defendant. We have been cited to no case in which
the State Supreme Court. has held that an injunction
against rate proceedings. must result in such inordinate
returns as the respondent here may receive.
Under these circumstances our opinion as to the local
law "cannot- escape being a 'forecast rather than a de'termination." Railroad Commission-v. Pullman Co., 312,
U. S. 496, 499 What was said by the Court there is
equ'ally applicable here: .,Thelast word on the meaning.of Article 6445 of the Texas Civil Statutes, and therefore
the last word on the Statutory authority of the Railroad
Commission in thig case, belongs heither to us nor to the'

474

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
BLAcK, J.,, dissenting.

317 U. S.

district court but to the supreme court of Texas ...
The reign of law is hardly promoted if an unnecessary
ruling of a federal court is thus supplanted by a controlling decision of a state court." 2 Here as there "If there
was no warrant in state law for the Commission's assumption of authority there isan end of the litigation; the
constitutional issue does not arise." Ibid., 500, 501.
Even assuming, with the Court, that this delay in the
judicial process bars the petitioners from the particular
.relief sought under local law, I still think we should hold
that this injunction was improvidently granted. We
are given as the bases of federal equity jurisdiction these
propositions: The State order is on its face "plainly invalid"; United will be put to considerable expense in
complying with it; non-compliance will result in heavy
penalties or in costly litigation. In my opinion none of
these separately nor all taken together provide any
ground for federal jurisdiction.
What has been said above concerning the necessity of
allowing state courts to decide state law is in my view
adequate answer to the argument that the order is
"plainly invalid." Ohio law in this respect could be adequately interpreted and enforced in Ohio courts. In addition, I do not consider the order before us ripe for review. It is simply a declaration of status requiring nothing of United other than co6peration in exploration of the
rate problem for the purpose of eventually setting
United's rates, and is thus as properly outside the realm
of review now as if this were "an attempt to review a valuation made by the Interstate Commerce Commission
which has no immediate legal effect although it may be
the basis of a subsequent rate order." Rochester Telephone Corp. V. United States, 307 'U. S. 125, 129. In this
respect, the instant case is identical with East Ohio Gas
2For other cases exemplifying this viewpoint, see Watson v. Buck,
313 U. S. 387, 402.

PUBLIC UTILITIES COMM'N v. GAS CO.
456

475

BLACK, j., dissenting.

Co. v. Federal Power Commission, 115 F. 2d 385, 388.
Unless the other grounds of alleged equitable jurisdiction
take it outside the scope of the Rochester case, this is not
time for review.
appropriate
theWe
are told that United will be put to great expense
by
must
that
it
order,
in
compliance with the Commission's
provide certain statistical data necessary 96 that the Coinmission may complete its study of the rate problem. It
is not suggested that this cost in' ifself isany reason for
enjoining the proceeding, nor could it be unless Petroleum
Co. v. Commission, supra, 220, is to be overr'uled; but the
special .circumstance offered here is that Congress by passage of the Natural Gas Act sought to prevent such an expenditure. We are given no argument and cited to no
legislative history indicating that Congress had any desire
to preclude the states from protecting state consumers
against unfair rates for the period prior to the passage of
the federal Act.
I am not as sure as the majority of the Court that refusal of United to comply with the Commission's order
will in fact subject it to heavy penalties.' But assuming
that this order is backed by the penalty clause, the case
should be governed by what we said recently in Petroleum
Co. v. Public Service Commission, supra, 220: "No order
has been entered fixing rates or regulating conduct. The
necessity to expend for the investigation or to take the
risk of .non:compliance does not justify the injunction. It
3The penalty provisions of the Ohio statute, §§ 614-64 and 65 ar
applicable where a rate or refund order is disobeyed, State ex rel.Ohio Bell Telephone Co. v. Court of Common Pleas, 128 Ohio St. 553,
555, 192 N. E. 787, but it may be that orders of the sort here involved
are covered by §§ 614-6 and 7, providing for the examination of records
and the production of witnesses. If.this is so, review may be obtained
under Ohio practice without fear of penalty prior to a final judicial
determination. See e. g. Mouser v. Public Utilities Commission, 124
Ohio St. 425, 179 N. E. 133. We are cited to no cases which indicate
which of these procedures governs this order.

476 .

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Syllabus.

317 U. S.

is not the sort of irreparable injury against which equity
protects," Cf. Dalton Machine Co. v. Virginia, 236 U. S.
699.
That United may be subjected to a course of litigation
before its rights under the Ohio law are fully determined
is the least of all reasons for this use of equity jurisdiction.
The compelling consideration here isthat "Lawsuits also
often prove to have been groundless; but no way has been
discovered of relieving a defendant from the necessity of
a trial to establish the fact." Myers v. Bethlehem Corp.,
303 U. S.41, 51.
The judgment below should be reversed and the State
of Ohio permitted to continue as best it can in view of the
long delay caused by the unfortunate intervention of the
federal courts.
HARRISON, COLLECTOR OF INTERNAL REVENUE,. v. NORTHERN TRUST CO. ET AL., EXECUTORS.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SEVENTH CIRCUIT.
No. 103. Argued December 8, 1942.-Decided January 11, 1943.
1. In § 303 (a) of the Revenue Act of 1926 which, as amended by
§ 807 of the Revenue Act of 1932, provides that where the federal
estate tax is "payable . . .out of the bequests, legacies, or devises
* otherwise deductible under this paragraph, then the amount deductible under this paragraph shall be the amount of such bequests,
legacies, or devises reduced by the amount of such taxes," the words
"payable out of" are used in the sense of "diminished or reduced
by" the payment of the tax. P. 479.
2. The legislative history of 'astatute may be considered in ascertaining its meaning, no matter how clear its words may appear on
superficial examination. P. 479.
3. Where a residuiry estate is bequeathed to charities for which deduction is allowed by § 303 (a) of the Revenue Act of 1926, as
amended by § 807 of the Revenue Act of 1932, and by the state law

