NATURAL MILK ASSN. v. SAN FRANCISCO.

423

Opinion of the Court.

NATURAL MILK PRODUCERS ASSOCIATION
ET AL. V. CITY AND COUNTY OF SAN FRANCISCO
ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF CALIFORNIA.

No. .385. Argued December 16, 17, 1942.-Decided January 11, 1943.
Where a federal question sought to be reviewed on certiorari becomes
moot by reason of a change in the factual situation, which occurred
after the trial and which was not noticed by the court below, the
proper practice is to vacate the judgment, without costs to either
party in this Court, and remand the cause to the court below for
such further proceedings as it may deem proper. P. 424.
20 Cal. 2d 101, 124 P. 2d 25, vacated and remanded.

Mr. Philip S. Ehrlich:for appellants.
Messrs. 'Henry Heidelberg and Herbert Levy, with
whom Mr. JohnJ. O'Toole was on the brief, for appellees.
PER CURIAM.

In this case appellants contend that the San Francisco
Milk Ordinance violates the Fourteenth Amendment because it requires non-pasteurized raw milk sold in San
Francisco to be certified by, and to conform to standards
prescribed by, the Milk Commission of the San Francisco
Medical Society, instead of by a public board or officer,
while at the same time prohibiting the sale of all other
non-pasteurized milk, including "guaranteed raw milk"
which appellants allege is the same as certified raw milk.
Subsequent to the trial of the case, the Milk Commission
of the San Francisco Medical Society determined that
non-pasteurized milk could not be certified by it as free
from harmful bacteria, and promulgated an order accordingly, effective January 15, 1939. This fact, which
apparently was not called to the attention of the Supreme
Court of California, renders moot the federal questions

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.

424

317 U. S.

Counsel for Parties.

raised by appellants, since all milk sold in San Francisco,
not certified by the Milk Commission of the Medical
Society, is required by the ordinance to be pasteurized,
and since appellants do not by this suit challenge the
validity under the Fourteenth Amendment of the pasteurization requirement. In order that the state court
may make proper disposition of the case in the light of
the fact that the federal questions cannot be decided
here, we vacate the judgment, without .costs to either
party in this Court, and remand the cause to the Supreme
Court of California for such further proceedings as it
may deem appropriate. Floridav. Knott, 308 U. S.507;
Washington ex rel. Columbia Broadcasting Co. v. Superior Court, 310 U. S.613; Missouri ex rel, Wabash Ry. Co.
v. PublicService Comm'n, 273 U. S.126.
So ordered.

UNITED STATES v. MONIA

ET AL.

APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.

No. 248. Argued December 16, 1942.-Decided January 11, 1943.
One, who, in obedience to a subpoena, appears before a grand jury
inquiring into an alleged violation of the Sherman Act, and gives
testimony under oath substantially touching the alleged offense, obtains immunity from prosecution for that offense, pursuant to the
terms of the Sherman Act, as amended, although he does not claim

his privilege against self-incrimination. P. 430.
Affirmed.
APPEAL

under the Criminal Appeals Act from a judg-

ment overruling demurrers to special pleas in bar filed
by, the appellees to an indictment for violation of the
Sherman Act.
Mr. Edward H. Miller, with whom Solicitor General
Fahy, Assistant Attorney General Arnold, and Mr. Robert L. Stern were on the brief, for the V'nited States.

