SOLA ELECTRIC CO. v. JEFFERSON CO.

173

Opinion of the Court.

SOLA ELECTRIC CO. v. JEFFERSON ELECTRIC CO.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SEVENTH CIRCUIT.

No. 45. Argued October 23, 1942.-Decided December 7, 1942.
1. Where, owing to the invalidity of a patent, a price-fixing stipulation
in a license to manufacture the patented article and to sell it in interstate commerce is in conflict with the Sherman Law, the licensee is
not estopped to set up the invalidity against the licensor in a suit by
the latter to recover royalties and to enjoin sales not in conformity
with the license agreement. P. 175.
2. This question of estoppel is a federal question. P. 175.
Local rules of estoppel will not be permitted to thwart the purposes of statutes of the United States. Erie R. Co. v. Tompkins,
304 U. S. 64, distinguished. P. 176.
125 F. 2d 322, reversed.

316 U. S. 652, to review a judgment affirming the District Court in upholding a price-fixing provision
in a patent license agreement, and dismissing a counterclaim.
CERTIORARI,

Mr. J. Bernhard Thiess, with whom Messrs.Sidney Neuman and Leslie W. Frichp,were on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Thomas H. Shermxan for respondent.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE STONE

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The question for our decision is whether a patent licensee, by virtue of his license agreement, is estopped to
challenge a price-fixing clause in the:agreement by showing that the patent is invalid, and that the price restriction
is accordingly unlawful because not protected by the
patent monopoly.
Respondent brought the present suit in the District
Court for the Northern District of Illinois, asserting di-

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

317 U. S.

versity of citizenship, and alleging that it was the owner
of Patent No. 1,777, 256 for improvements in an electrical
transformer; that it had enteed into a license contract
granting petitioner a non-exclusive license to manufacture
and sell the patented transformers throughout the United
States, its territories, dependencies and possessions, on
payment of a stipulated royalty upon each transformer so
manufactured and sold. The contract provided that the
licens, was granted on condition that the "prices, terms,
and conditions of sale, for use or sale" throughout the
licensed territory should not be more favorable to. petitioner's customers than those prescribed from time to
time by respondent for its own sales and those of its other
licensees. Respondent sought recovery of unpaid royalties and also an injunction restraining further sales except
in conformity to the terms of the, license agreement.
Petitioner by its answer admitted that it had manufactured two types of transformers, one covered by certain
narrow claims of the patent, claims 8,'14 and 19, the validity of which it does not challenge, the other alleged to be
covered by certain broader claims. Petitioner also filed
a counterclaim alleging that the broad claims are invalid
for want of novelty, as it asserted had been recognized in
the Sixth Circuit in France Mfg. Co. v. Jefferson Electric
Co., 106 F. 2d 605; and that respondent, by reason of the
price control provisions of the licensing contract and the
invalidity of the broad claims, was not entitled to recover
royalties upon those transformers covered only by the
broad claims. Petitioner accordingly prayed a declaratory judgment that most of the claims, except 8, 14 and
19, are invalid, and for other relief.
The Circuit Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit
affirmed the District Court's order dismissing the counterclaim, 125 F. 2d 322, ruling that petitioner, having accepted a license under the patent, was estopped to deny
its validity. And, treating the patent as valid, it held

SOLA ELECTRIC CO. v. JEFFERSON CO.
173

175

Opinion of the Court.

that the stipulation for control of the sales price of the
patented articles manufactured by the licensee was a lawful exercise of the patent monopoly. We granted certiorari, 316 U. S. 652, the question being of importance to
the administration of the patent laws and the Sherman
Anti-Trust Act.
The Circuit Court of Appeals, in holding that petitioner
as a licensee was estopped to challenge the validity of the
patent, did not say whether it considered that it was applying a rule of federal or of state law, and it cited no
decisions of either the federal or the Illinois courts. Where
no price-fixing stipulation was involved in the license contract, this rule of estoppel, which was not questioned by
counsel, was applied without discussion in United States
v. Harvey Steel Co., 196 U. S. 310; cf. Kinsman v. Parkhurst, 18 How. 289. We need not decide whether in such
a case the rule is one of local law, cf. Dale Tile Mfg. Co. v.
Hyatt, 125 U. S. 46, 53-54, or whether, if it be regarded
as a rule of federal'law because the construction and application of the patent laws are involved,.it was rightly applied in United States v. Harvey Steel Co., supra. For
here a different question is presented-whether the doc-,
trine of estoppel as invoked below is so in conflict with the
Sherman Act's prohibition of price-fixing that this Court
may resolye the question even though its conclusion be
contrary to that of a state court.
The present license contract contemplates and requires
that petitioner, on 'sales of the licensed transformers
throughout the United States, shall--conform to the prices
fixed by respondent for the sale of competing patented
articles by other licensees and by respondent. Such a
restriction on the price of articles efitering interstate commerce is a violation of the Sherman Act save only as it
is within the protection of a lawfully granted patent monopoly. See United States v. Univis.Lens Co., 316 li. S.
241, 250, and cases cited; United States v. Masonite Corp.,

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

317 U. S.

316 U. S. 265, 275-77. Agreements fixing the competitive
sales price of articles moving interstate, not within the
protection of a patent, are unlawful because prohibited by
the Sherman Act.
It is familiar doctrine that the prohibition of a federal
statute may not be set at naught, or its benefits denied, by
state statutes or state common law rules. In such a case
our decision is not controlled by Erie R. Co. v. Tompkins,
304 U. S. 64. There we followed state law because it was
the law to be applied in the federal courts. But the doctrine of that case is inapplicable to those areas of judicial
decision within which the policy of the law is so dominated
by the sweep of federal statutes that legal relations which
they affect must be deemed governed by federal law having
its source in those statutes, rather than .by local law.
Royal Indemnity Co. v. United States, 313 U. S. 289, 296;
Prudence Corp. v. Geist, 316 U. S. 89, 95; Board of
Comm'rs v. United States, 308 U. S. 343, 349-50; cf.
O'Brien v. Western Union Telegraph Co., 113 F. 2d 539,
541. When a federal statute condemns an act as unlawful,
the extent and nature of the legal consequences of the
condemnation, though left by the statute to judicial determination, are nevertheless federal questions, the answers to which are to be derived from the statute and the
federal policy which it has adopted. To the federal statute and policy, conflicting state law and policy must yield.
Constitution, Art. VI, cl. 2; Awotin v. Atlas Exchange
Bank, 295 U. S. 209; Deitrick v. Greaney, 309 U. S. 190,
200-01.
The federal courts have been consistent in holding that
local rules of estoppel will not be permitted to thwart
the purposes of statutes of the United States. See, in
the case of federal statutes governing interstate freight
rates, Pittsburgh,C., C. & St. L. Ry. Co. v. Pink, 250 U. S.
577, 582-83; Chesapeake & Ohio Ry. Co. v. Martin, 283
U. S. 209,220-22; cf. Atchison, T. & S. F. Ry. Co. v. Harold,

SOLA ELECTRIC CO. v. JEFFERSON CO.
173

177

Opinion of the Court.

241 U. S. 371; and federal statutes affecting national
banks, Awotin v. Atlas Exchange Bank, supra; Deitrickv.
Greaney,supra.
A state by applying its own law of specific performance
may not compel the performance of a contract contemplating violation of the federal land laws, Anderson v.
Carkins,135 U. S. 483. Similarly, this Court has declared
that anyone sued upon a contract may set up as a defense
that it is in violation of the Sherman Act. Bement v.
National Harrow Co., 186 U. S. 70, 88. And it has proceeded on the assumption that whether the parties to
an agreement in violation of the Act are in pari delicto
is a question of federal, not state, law. Harriman v.
Northern Securities Co., 197 U. S. 244; Eastman Kodak
Co. v. Southern Photo Co., 273 U. S. 359, 376-78. It
decided, in Continental Wall Paper Co. v. Voight & Sons
Co., 212 U. S. 227, that a vendee of goods purchased from
an illegal combination in pursuance of an illegal agreement, both in violation of the Sherman Act, can' plead
the illegality in defense to a suit for the purchase price.
This decision went much further than it is necessary to
go here io conclude that petitioner may assert the illegality of the price-fixing agreement and may offer any competent evidence to establish its illegality, including proof
of the invalidity of the patent.
Local rules of estoppel which would fasten upon the
public as well as the petitioner the burden of an agreement in violation of the Sherman. Act must yield to the
Act's declaration that such agreements are unlawful, and
to the public policy of the Act which in the public interest
precludes the enforcement of such unlawful agreements.
Cf. Morton Salt Co. v. Suppiger Co., 314 U. S. 488, 492-93.
Reversed.

503873-43-19

