HUNTINGTON v. SA10NDERS.
Opinion of the Court.

a power of the General Government come into collision, the
former must give way; and as the freedom of interstate commerce is secured by the Constitution, except as Congress shall
limit it, the act is void because in violation of that freedom.
MR. JUsTICE BREWER did not hear the argument in this case,
and took no part in its decision.

HUNTINGTON v. SAUNDERS.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEAlS FOR THE FIRST
CIRCUIT.
No. 928. Submitted May 4, 1890.-Decided May 25,1696.

The objections of a creditor to the discharge of a bankrupt being dismissed
for want of prosecution, the creditor flied his petition for revision in the
Circuit Court of the United States. Issues were made up and the case heard.
The Circuit Court held that the petition must be dismissed and an order
to that effect was entered. Thereupon the creditor appealed to the Circuit Court of Appeals, which court dismissed the appeal for want of
jurisdiction. Appeal was taken to this court. Held, that this court had
jurisdiction of such an appeal, when it appeared affirmatively that the
amount in controversy exceeded $1000, besides costs, which did not appear
in this case.

MOTION to dismiss.

The case is stated in the opinion.
XM. William B. Duranut for the motion.
.Mr. Banrodft GherardiDavie opposing.
MR. CIErF JUSTICE FuLLER

delivered the opinion of the

court.
William A. Saunders was adjudicated bankrupt by the
District Court of the United States for the District of Massachusetts, October 1, 1875, on petition of creditors filed July
13, 1875. Saunders applied for a discharge by petition filed

OCTOBER TERAI, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

July 19, 1876, of which notice was given returnable May 25,
1S77. James Huntington objected to the granting of the
discharge and, on June 4, 1877, filed written specifications of
his objections. Several hearings were had thereon before the
register, and the hearing was closed in 1878. December 22,
1S93, Saunders made an application that the objections to his
discharge might be dismissed or heard at an early day. December 23, 1893, the court dismissed Huntington's objections
for want of prosecution, and on December 30, 1893, granted
the bankrupt's discharge. On January 1, 1894, Huntington
gave notice of an application to the Circuit Court for a review
of the dismissal of objections and the granting the discharge,
and on January 3, 1894, filed his petition for revision in the
Circuit Court of the United States for the First Circuit. Issues
were made up and the case heard. The Circuit Court held
that the petition must be dismissed, 64 Fed. Rep. 476, and on
January 16, 1895, an order to that effect was entered. Thereupon Huntington appealed to the Circuit Court of Appeals
for the First Circuit, which court dismissed the appeal for want
of jurisdiction, February 3, 1896. 33 U. S. App. 416.
It was stipulated that Huntington was a creditor of
Saunders, "and that the amount of his claim against the
bankrupt, which will be discharged if the discharge granted
to the bankrupt shall stand, amounts to over five thousand
dollars ($5000), exclusive of any interest or costs."
From the final decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals Huntington prayed an appeal to this court, which was allowed, and
having been docketed here, a motion to dismiss was made.
This appeal is prosecuted under the last clause of section
six of the judiciary act of March 3, 1891, providing: "In all
cases not hereinbefore, in this section, made final there shall
be of right an appeal or writ of error or review of the case by
the Supreme Court of the United States where the matter in
controversy shall exceed one thousand dollars besides costs."
This is not one of the cases in which the decrees or judgments of the Circuit Courts of Appeals are made final by that
section, but in our opinion the matter in controversy does not
exceed one thousand dollars besides costs. The proof of Hunt-

BURFElNNIG v. CHICAGO, ST. PAUL &c. RI'Y.

321

Statement of the Case.

ington's claim was not in controversy nor the amount of it.
Whether Saunders was entitled to a certificate of discharge
was in controversy, bat even assuming that the value of this
certificate was susceptible of an estimate in money, there was
no evidence whatever in the record tending to show this value.
South Caro~nav. &ymnour, 153 U. S. 353, 358. Huntington
was entitled to share in whatever assets passed to the assignee,
and whether Saunders had acquired new assets after he was
put into bankruptcy did not appear.
The matter in controversy must have actual value, and that
cannot be supplied by speculation on the possibility that if a
discharge were refused something might be made out of the
bankrupt. Dulzam v. S&y7"our, 161 U. S.235.
Appeal 4ie8se

BURFENNING v. CHICAGO, ST. PAUL, MINNEAPOLIS AND OMAHTA RAILWAY COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF, MINNESOTA.
No. 2T.

SubmIttod May 1,1 96. -Decided

May 15, 1596.

While It is well settled that, in the administration of the public land system
of the United States, questions of fact are for the consideration and
judgment of the Land Department, and Its judgment thereon is final, it
is equally true that when, by act of Congress, a tract of land has been
reserved from homestead and preemption, or dedicated to any special
purpose, proceedings in the Land Department in defiance of such reservation or dedication, although culminating in a patent, transfer no title;
and the patent questioned in this case comes within that general rule of
invalidity.

ON March 20, 1890, plaintiff in error commenced his action in
the District Court of Hennepin County, Minnesota, to recover
possession of certain islands situated in the Mississippi River
and within the territorial limits of the city of Minneapolis.
After answer and trial had in that court, which resulted in a
judgment for the defendant, and which judgment was affirmed
by the Supreme Court, this writ of error was sued out.
voi., cLxm-21

