SIN1GER MANUFACTURINqG CO. v. BENT.
Opinion of the Court.

SINGER MANUFACTURING COMPANY
APPEAL

FROM

,.

BENT.

THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR

THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
No.7.

Argued October 16, It, 1894. -Decided

May 18,1896.

Singer Manufacturing Company v. June Manufacturing Company, ante, 169,
followed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Lawrence faxewell, Jr., and -Mr. Charle ff. Ojedd for
appellant.
M r. Wagace Heckman for appellee.
ME. JusTICE WHITE delivered the opinion of the court.

The pleadings here are substantially similar to those in the
case of the Singer Manufacturing Company against the June
Manufacturing Company, and the testimony in that case, in so
far as applicable, was by stipulation used in this. Some additional testimony was, however, introduced bearing upon the
particular alleged wrongdoing here complained of. The Circuit Court rendered a decree in favor of the defendant. 41
Fed. Rep. 214.
There is no difference in legal principle between the two
cases. The sewing machines sold by the defendant were
made by the June Manufacturing Company, and were in form
like those generally made and sold by it. These machines
contained the oval plate fixed at the base of the arm, a devicecast in the leg of the stand of the machine, the plate and the
casting being of the same general shape, size and appearance.
as those used by the Singer Manufacturing Company. There
was, however, no exact identity between the words and marks.
used on the brass plates and in the casting of the Singer Company and those placed on the machines of the defendant.
The device, which the defendant styled his trade-mark, con-

OCTOBER TERMI, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

tained an eagle surrounded with the wording "NEW YORK,
S. M. :MFG. CO. WARRANTED." The lettering "New
York S. M. Mfg. Co." on the brass plate of defendant corresponded in size and style of letters, with the lettering "The
Singer Manfg. Co." on the brass plates of the latter company.
It is plain that the position and size as well as the inscription
found on these devices were calculated to deceive by creating
the impression, on one not familiar with all the details of the
marks of the Singer Manufacturing Company, that they were
the marks of that company. The defendant argued that there
is a difference between his devices and those of the June
Manufacturing Company in that he does not, in so many
words, employ the name "Singer." In other words, the contention is that a fraudulent device which is tantamount to a
certain word, is not equivalent in law to the word for which it
stands. The deceptive purpose of the devices and the lettering or words on them are abundantly established by the proof.
The principal business office of the Singer Manufacturing
Company is in the city of New York. In the so called trademark of the defendant the letters "S. M. Mfg. Co." are pre-ceded by the word "New York," although there was no such
company and the defendant had no factory or office there, but
did business in Chicago, and bought in that city from the June
Manufacturing Company the machines upon which he put the
marks in question. There is no doubt that the marks were
imitations of those used by the Singer Company and were
intended to deceive, and were made only seemingly different
to afford a plausible pretext for asserting that they were not
illegal imitations, although they were so closely imitative as
to deceive the public. The defendant therefore must be
treated as if he had actually used the Singer marks. So treating him, however, we should be obliged to allow the use of
the name "Singer," since that name, as we have already held
in the case just decided, fell into the domain of things public,
'subject to the condition on the one who used it to make an
honest disclosure of the source of manufacture. This rule
controls and is applicable to this case, and renders necessary
:a reversal of the decree below.

BACON v. TEXAS.'
Syllabus.

It follows that the decree below must be
Reversed and the cause remanded, with directions to
enter a decree in favor of complainant, with cost,, perpetually enjoining the defendant, his agents, servants and
reprewentatives,from marking upon sewing machines made
or sold by him, or upon any plate or device connected there-

with or attached thereto, the word "iSinger," or words or
Ietterm equivalent thereto, without clearly and unmistakably

specifying in connection therewith that such machines are
the product of the defendant or other manufacturer,and
not the manufacture of the Singer Manufacturing Company; and the defendant must be ordered to account as
to any profits which may have been realized by him, because of the wrongful acts by him committed.

BACON v. TEXAS.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF CIVIL APPEALS FOR THE SECOND SUPREME
JUDICIAL DISTRICT OF THE STATE OF TEXAS.
No. 296. Argued May 6, 7, 1896.-Decded May18, 1896.
In this case application was made by the defendants below, after judgment,
to the Supreme Court of Texas for a writ of error to the Court of Civil
Appeals for the second district for the purpose of reviewing the judgment of that court, and the application was denied. Held, that this
court has jurisdiction to reexamine the judgment on writ of error to
the Court of Civil Appeals.
In case of a change of phraseology in an article in a state constitution, it Is
for the state courts to determine whether the change calls for a change
of construction.
Where there are two grounds for the judgment of a state court, one only
of which involves a Federal question, and the other is broad enough to
maintain a judgment sought to be reviewed, this court will not look into
the Federal question.
When a state courtbas based Its decision on a local or state question, and
this court In consequence finds it unnecessary to decide a Federal
question raised by the record, the logical course is to dismiss the writ of
error.

