OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

mean to say that this claim might not have been allowed by
the proper Executive Department, and paid out of moneys at
its disposal for such purposes. No such question is now presented, and we therefore express no opinion upon it. We adjudge nothing more than that the Court of Claims could not
take judicial cognizance of this claim because it was and is a
"War Claim," that is, one growing out of the appropriation
of property by the army while engaged in the suppression of
the rebellion, and not one arising upon a valid contract, express or implied, made when such appropriation occurred.
These views render it unnecessary to consider any other
question in the case, and require a reversal of the judgment.
The judgment is reversed and the cause remanded with
directions to dismiss the actionfor want ofjurisdiotion i,
the Court of Claims.
MR. JUSTIE SHm s

dissented.

UNITED STATES v. LAWS.
CERTIFICATE FROM

THE

CIRCUIT

COURT

OF

APPEALS

FOR THE

SIXTH CIRCUIT.
No. 248.

Submitted April 28, 1896.-Decided May 18, 1896.

A contract made with an alien in a foreign country to come to this country
as a chemist on a sugar plantation in Louisiana, in pursuance of which
contract such alien does come to thi country and is employed on a
sugar plantation in Louisiana, and his expenses paid by the defendant,
is not such a contract to perform labor or service as is prohibited in the
act of Congress passed February 26, 1885.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Xr. Solicitor General for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Lawrence Maxwell, Jr., for defendant in error.
MRi.

JUSTICE PECKH-A

delivered the opinion of the court.

UNITED STATES v. LAWS.
Opinion of the Court.

This case comes here upon a certificate from the United
States Circuit Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit. The
case came before that court by writ of error to the judgment
of the Circuit Court of the United States for the Southern
District of Ohio, Western Division. Upon being presented
to the Circuit Court of Appeals it appeared from the record
that the following question or proposition of law arose in the
case concerning which the court desired the instruction of
this court as to the proper decision thereof. The following
is the question as stated:
"Is a contract made with an alien in a foreign country to
come to this country as a chemist on a sugar plantation in
Louisiana, in pursuance of which contract such alien does
come to this country and is employed on a sugar plantation
in Louisiana, and his expenses paid by the defendant, a contract to perform labor or service as prohibited in the act of
Congress passed February 26, 1885 ?"
The court certified the following as being a summarized
statement of the facts appearing in the bill. of exceptions
made under the direction of the judges of the court, viz.:
"Statement of Facts.
"A. Seeliger was, on or about July 22, 1889, a citizen of
the German Empire, residing at Dormangen, Germany. At
that date it is claimed that the defendant made a contract
with him to come to the United States as a chemist on a
sugar plantation in Louisiana, and that Seeliger agreed to
come to the United States for that purpose, and that the
defendant paid his expenses to the United States; that Seeliger paid his expenses to the United States; that Seeliger
came to the United States and went to Louisiana, and was
there employed on a sugar plantation as chemist under the
direction of the defendant."
It will be noticed that in the foregoing statement of facts
there is a plain contradiction as to which party paid Seeliger's
expenses; whether he paid them himself or whether the defendant paid them, it being stated both ways. This is unquestionably a mere clerical error, because in the question which

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

is certified to this court the statement is plainly made that
the expenses of Seeliger were paid by the defendant. We
must assume, therefore, that such is the fact.
The act of Congress under which the question arises, passed
February 26, 1885, c. 164, 23 Stat. 332, is entitled "An act
to prohibit the importation and migration of foreigners and
aliens under contract or agreement to perform labor in the
United States, its Territories and the District of Columbia."'
The first and second sections thereof read as follows:
"SEC. 1. Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assernbled,
That from and after the passage of this act it shall be unlawful for any person, company, partnership or corporation, in
any manner whatsoever, to prepay the transportation, or in
any way assist or encourage the importation or migration of
any alien or aliens, any foreigner or foreigners, into the
United States, its Territories, or the District of Columbia, under contract or agreement, parol or special, express or implied,
made previous to the importation or migration of such alien
or aliens, foreigner or foreigners, to perform labor or service
of any kind in the United States, its Territories, or the District of Columbia.
"SEC. 2. That all contracts or agreements, express or implied, parol or special, which may hereafter be made by and
between any person, company, partnership or corporation,
and any foreigner or foreigners, alien or aliens, to perform
labor or service or having reference to the performance of
labor or service by any person in the United States, its Territories or the District of Columbia previous to the migration
or importation of the person or persons whose labor or service
is contracted for into the United States, shall be utterly void
and of no effect."
The third and fourth sections are not material here. The
fifth section, after providing for certain exceptions to the provisions of the first two sections, further enacts that the act
shall not apply "to professional actors, artists, lecturers or
singers, nor to persons employed strictly as personal or domestic servants."

UNITED STATES v. LAWS.
Opinion of the Court.

While this act was in force a suit was brought in the Circuit Court for the Southern District of New York in favor of
the United States against the Rector, etc., of the Church of
the Holy Trinity in the city of New York. It was brought
to recover the penalty of $1000, as provided for in the act,
and in the course of the trial it appeared that the defendant
was a religious corporation, and had engaged a Mr. Warren,
an alien residing in England, to come to the city of New York
and take charge of its church as pastor. It was claimed on
the part of the United States that the church corporation in
making that contract with Mr. Warren had violated the first
section of the act in question. It was held by the Circuit
Court that the contract was within the statute, and that the
defendant was liable for the penalty provided for therein.

United Statem v. Rector &c. of the Church of the Holy Trinity,
36 Fed. Rep. 303.
In the course of his opinion the learned Circuit Judge said,
p. 301:
"It was, no doubt, primarily the object of the act to prohibit the introduction of assisted immigrants, brought here
under contracts previously made by corporations and capitalists to prepay their passage and obtain their services at low
wages for limited periods of time. It was a measure introduced and advocated by the trades union and labor associations, designed to shield the interests represented by such
organizations from the effects of the competition in the labor
market of foreigners brought here under contracts having a
tendency to stimulate immigration and reduce the rates of
wages. Except from the language of the statute there is no
reason to suppose a contract like the present to be within the
evils which the law was designed to suppress; and, indeed, it
would not be indulging a violent supposition to assume that
no legislative body in this country would have advisedly
enacted a law framed so as to cover a case like the present."
Nevertheless the Circuit Court felt bound by what it regarded the plain terms of the statute to hold that the defendant had violated the act and was therefore amenable to its
penalties.

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

The court was strengthened in its construction of the statute
in question by the terms of the proviso above alluded to, contained in the fifth section, which excepted from the act professional actors, artists, lecturers and singers. The Circuit
Judge said: "If, without this exemption, the act would apply
to this class of persons, because such persons come here under
contracts for labor or service, then clearly it must apply to
ministers, lawyers, surgeons, architects and all others who
labor in any professional calling. Unless Congress supposed
the act to apply to the excepted classes, there was no necessity
for the proviso.

.

.

.

Giving effect to this well settled rule

of statutory interpretation the proviso is equivalent to a declaration that contracts to perform professional services, except
those of actors, artists, lecturers or singers, are within the prohibition of the preceding sections." (page 305.)
The defendant in the action brought the case to this court
for review, where the judgment of the Circuit Court was reversed; and it was held that the statute did not apply to such
a contract. The opinion of this court was delivered by Mr.
Justice Brewer, and is reported in 143 U. S. 457. In the
course of that opinion the title of the act in question was referred to and commented upon, and it was stated, in speaking of
the title, that "obviously the thought expressed in this reaches
only to the work of the manual laborer as distinguished from
that of the professional man. No one reading such a title
would suppose that Congress had in its mind any purpose of
staying the coming into this country of ministers of the gospel,
or, indeed, of any class whose toil is that of the brain."
It was further stated in the opinion as follows:
"Again, another guide to the meaning of a statute is found
in the evil which it is designed to remedy; and for this the
court properly looks at contemporaneous events, the situation
as it existed, and as it was pressed upon the attention of the
legislative body. United States v. Union Pacifc Railroad,
91 U. S. 12, 79. The situation which called for this statute
was briefly but fully stated by Mr. Justice Brown when, as
District Judge, he decided the case of United States v. Craig,
28 Fed. Rep. 795, 798: 'The motives and history of the act

UNITED STATES v. LAWS.
Opinion of the Court.

are matters of common knowledge. It had become the practice for large capitalists in this country to contract with their
agents abroad for the shipment of great numbers of an ignorant and servile class of foreign laborers, under contracts, by
which the employer agreed, upon the one hand, to prepay
their passage, while, upon the other hand, the laborers agreed
to work after their arrival for a certain time at a low rate of
wages. The effect of this was to break down the labor market,
and to reduce other laborers engaged in like occupations to
the level of the assisted immigrant. The evil finally became
so flagrant that an appeal was made to Congress for relief by
the passage of the act in question, the design of which was to
raise the standard of foreign immigrants, and to discountenance the migration of those who had not sufficient means
in their own bands, or those of their friends, to pay their
passage.'"
Allusion is then made to the petitions and testimony presented before the committees of Congress, from which it
appears "that it was this cheap, unskilled labor which was
making the trouble, and the influx of which Congress sought
to prevent. It was never suggested that we had in this country a surplus of brain toilers, and, least of all, that the market
for the services of Christian ministers was depressed by foreign competition."
Summing up the matter on this branch, it was said in the
opinion as follows: "We find, therefore, that the title of the
act, the evil which was intended to be remedied, the circumstances surrounding the appeal to Congress, the reports of the
committee of each house, all concur in affirming that the intent of Congress was simply to stay the influx of this cheap,
unskilled labor."
Beyond that, the opinion proceeded with the statement
that no purpose of action against religion could be imputed
to any legislation, state or national, because of the fact that
this is a religious people, not Christianity with an established
church and tithes and spiritual courts; but Christianity with
liberty of conscience to all men, as was stated in Ujpdegralk
v. The Commonweath, 11 S. & R. 394, 400.

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

Upon the basis, therefore, that it could not be imputed as
the intention of Congress, notwithstanding the language used
in the act, to prevent the introduction of religious teachers,
it was held that the act did not apply to the case before the
court. Both grounds were covered in the opinion; the one
that the act was clearly intended to apply only to cheap, unskilled labor, and the other that in no event could it be construed as applying to a contract for the services of a rector or
a pastor of a religious corporation. The first ground covers
the case in hand. The construction given to the words "labor
or service" by this court in the above case was neither forced,
unnatural nor unusual. Considering the clear purpose of the
act, the construction adopted was a natural and proper one.
The same construction has been adopted in the courts in
the State of New York in relation to statutes providing for
claims of laborers. In .E'icsson v. B'own, 38 Barb. 390, one
of the sections of the act of incorporation rendered the stockholders individually liable for all the debts due and owing by
the company to its "laborers and apprentices." The plaintiff,
being a consulting engineer, rendered services to the company
as such, and he was held not to be within the meaning of the
statute, and hence could not recover from a stockholder. The
statute was held to refer to unskilled labor, where the individual earned his wages more by the labor of his hands than of
his head.
In Aikin v. Wasson, 24 N. Y. 482, the plaintiff contracted
with a railroad company to construct part of its road. Defendant was a stockholder in the company, which became
insolvent. It was indebted to plaintiff for the services of
himself and his laborers and servants under his contract. Section 10 of the railroad act enacted that "all the stockholders
of every such company shall be jointly and severally liable for
all the debts due or owing to any of its laborers and servants
for services performed for such corporation." It was held
that the plaintiff was neither a laborer nor a servant within
the meaning of the act.
In Coffln v. Reynolds, 37 N. Y. 640, the statute read: "The
stockholders of a company organized under the provisions of

UNITED STATES v. LAWS.
Opinion of the Court.

this act shall be jointly and severally individually liable for
all debts that may be due and owing to all their laborers,
servants and apprentices for services performed for such corporation." The plaintiff was the secretary of the company
and commenced an action against the defendant as a stockholder to recover the amount of his salary, the company being
insolvent. It was held that he could not recover. He was not
a laborer or a servant within the meaning of the statute.
In WakfteZd v. Fargo,90 N. Y. 213, under the same statute
it was held that one who was employed at a yearly salary as
book-keeper and general manager was not a laborer, servant
or apprentice within the meaning of the act, and hence that
he could not recover against the stockholders for a balance of
salary due him from the insolvent corporation.
These statutes were passed for the protection of laborers,
servants, apprentices and the like, and the opinions of the
courts in relation to the class of individuals that would be
included within the meaning of those terms are somewhat
relevant although not entirely analogous to the case before
this court.
Congress, however, a short time after and probably in consequence of the decision of the Circuit Court in the Southern
District of New York, amended the fifth section of the statute
in question by adding to the proviso therein mentioned the
words "nor to ministers of any religious denomination, nor
persons belonging to any recognized profession, nor professors
for colleges and seminaries," so that the proviso would read
that the provisions of this act should not "apply to professional
actors, artists, lecturers or singers, nor to persons employed
strictly as personal or domestic servants, nor to ministers of
any religious denomination, nor to persons belonging to any
recognized profession, nor professors for colleges and seminaries." Act of March 3, 1891, c. 551, 26 Stat. 1084.
This amendment to the statute of 1885, although passed
subsequently to the decision in the Circuit Court and prior to
the decision of the same case in this court, was not mentioned
in the opinion in this court, because the review was had upon
the record based upon the act as originally passed in 1885.

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

If by the terms of the original act the provisions thereof
applied only to unskilled laborers whose presence simply
tended to degrade American labor, the meaning of the act as
amended by the act of 1891 becomes if possible still plainer.
Now by its very terms it is not intended to apply to any
person belonging to any recognized profession. We think a
chemist would be included in that class. Although the study
of chemistry is the study of a science, yet a chemist who
occupies himself in the practical use of his knowledge of chemistry as his services may be demanded may certainly at this
time be fairly regarded as in the practice of a profession. One
definition of a profession is an "employment, especially an
employment requiring a learned education, as those of divinity,
law and physic." (Worcester's Dictionary, title profession.)
In the Century Dictionary the definition of the word "profession" is given, among others, as "A vocation in which a
professed knowledge of some department of science or learning is used by its practical application to the affairs of others,
either in advising, guiding, or teaching them, or in serving
their interests or welfare in the practice of an art founded on
it. Formerly, theology, law, and medicine were specifically
known as the 2rofessions; but as the applications of science
and learning are extended to other departments of affairs,
other vocations also receive the name. The word implies
professed attainments in special knowledge as distinguished
from mere skill. A practical dealing with affairs as distinguished from mere study or investigation; and an application
of such knowledge to uses for others as a vocation, as distinguished from its pursuit for its own purposes." There are
professors of chemistry in all the chief colleges of the country.
It is a science the knowledge of which is to be acquired only
after patient study and application. The chemist who places
his knowledge acquired from a study of the science to the use
of others as he may be employed by them, and as a vocation
for the purpose of his own maintenance, must certainly be
regarded as one engaged in the practice of a profession which
is generally recognized in this country.
The question presented to us assumes that the individual is

UNITED STATES v. LAWS.
Opinion of the Court.

a chemist, and that he has come to this country for the purpose of pursuing his vocation as a chemist on a sugar plantation in Louisiana. It may be assumed that the branch of
chemistry which he will practice will be that which relates to
and is connected with the proper manufacture of sugar from
the sugar cane, or possibly from sorghum or beets. He is
none the less a chemist, and none the less occupied in the
practice of his profession because he thus limits himself to
that particular branch, which is to be applied in the course of
the scientific manufacture of sugar any more than a lawyer
would cease to practice his profession by limiting himself to
any particular branch thereof or a doctor by confining his
practice to some speciality which he particularly favored and
was eminent in.
It is not stated what the particular duties of a chemist on a
sugar plantation are, but it is quite plain, even to one not
engaged in the business, that there would be a necessity for
the services of one skilled in the science of chemistry in order
to enable a manufacturer to make the most out of his materials
and produce a commodity up to the proper standard and of a
marketable nature. All sugar cane, for example, is not alike
in quality or in the proportions of the ingredients which enter
into its composition, and in the course of manufacture these
differences must be discovered and determined, and the material must be treated accordingly so that the finished product
shall be a commodity which is up to the standand set with
reference to the particular grade of sugar which it is claimed
to be. In order to determine this difference and to reach this
standard, analyses of the different samples of the cane at some
period of the process of manufacture ought to and must be
made, and these analyses it is the province of a chemist to
make. Upon their results depend the future treatment of the
article. The samples analyzed will of course differ, to some
extent, in their qualities from each other, and each will require different treatment, depending upon the result of the
analysis and the directions of the chemist founded thereon.
There can be, therefore, no regular or formal rule or method
adopted for all cases. It becomes necessary to examine each

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

sample and decide after such examination what treatment is
necessary for that particular lot thus examined. Learning in
the science, skill in its practice, experience in results, are all
factors going to make up the competent chemist in this particular branch.

The fact that the individual in question, by this contract,
had agreed to sell his time, labor and skill to one employer,
and in one prescribed branch of the science, does not in the
least militate against his being a professional chemist, nor
does it operate as a bar to the claim that while so employed
he is nevertheless practising a recognized profession. It is not
necessary that he should offer his services to the public at
large nor that he should hold himself ready to apply his scientific knowledge and skill to the business of all persons who
applied for them before he would be entitled to claim that he
belonged to and was actually practising a recognized profession. As well might it be said that the lawyer who enters
into the service of a corporation and limits his practice to cases
in which the corporation is interested thereby ceases to belong
to the profession. The chemist may confine his services to
one employer so long as the services which he performs are of
.a professional nature. It is not the fact that the chemist
keeps his services open for employment by the public generally which is the criterion by which to determine whether or
not he still belongs to or is practising a recognized profession.
So long as he is engaged in the practical application of his
knowledge of the science, as a vocation, it is not important
whether he holds himself out as ready to make that application in behalf of all persons who desire it, or that he contracts
to do it for some particular employer and at some named place.
We have no doubt that the individual named comes within
one of the exceptions named in the statute.
The question certified to this court by the Circuit Court of
Appeals for the Sixth Circuit should be answered in the
negative.

