NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILROAD v. EGELAND.

93

Opinion of the Court.

NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILROAD COMPANY v.
EGELAND.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT

COURT OF

APPEALS

FOR THE

EIGHTH

CIRCUIT.
No. 288. Argued and submitted April 20,1896. -Decided

May 18, 1896.

When, in an action by a railroad employ6 against the company to recover
damages for injuries suffered while on duty, the Inference to be drawn
from the facts is not so plain as to make It a legal conclusion that the
plaintiff was guilty of contributory negligence, the question whether he
was or was not so guilty must be left to the jury.
The defendant in error, plaintiff below, was a common laborer in the employ
of the plaintiff In error. When returning from his work on a train, the
conductor ordered him and others to jump off at a station when the train
was moving about four miles an hour. The platform was about a foot
lower than the car step. His fellow-laborers jumped and were landed
safely. He jumped and was seriously injured. He sued to recover
damages for those injuries. Held, that the court below rightly left it
to the jury to determine whether he was guilty of contributory negligence.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr1. C. WV. Bunn for plaintiff in error submitted on his brief.
.M. Henry J. Gjertsen for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE PE CKHAm

delivered the opinion of the court.

This action was brought in the United States Circuit Court
for the District of Minnesota, Fourth Division, by the plaintiff against the railroad company to recover damages which
he alleged he had sustained by reason of the neglect of the
agents and servants of the company. The plaintiff had a
verdict, and the judgment entered thereon was affirmed by
the United States Circuit Court of Appeals for the Eighth
Circuit. 12 U. S. App. 271.
The questions in the case arise on the exceptions taken to
the refusal of the court to instruct the jury as follows:
"First. That there is no negligence shown on the part of

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

the defendant which would entitle the plaintiff to recover a
verdict against the defendant.
"Second. That even if there should be any negligence
shown on the part of the defendant, yet the plaintiff was
guilty of such contributory negligence that he could not recover in this action."
The only ground for a new trial urged upon us has been
the second of the two just stated, and we shall confine the
discussion to that ground alone.
Upon the trial, evidence was given upon the part of the
plaintiff tending to show that he was one of 'a section crew
going out to work on the defendant's road and coming back
daily. He and the rest of the crew were brought to their
work and taken back from it by the defendant in a train consisting of a caboose and several flat cars drawn by an engine,
all under the control of one Potter, the conductor. Potter
controlled all the men, including plaintiff, from the time they
boarded the work train in the morning until they left the
train in the evening, and during the day directed the men,
including the plaintiff, what work to do. Returning on the
train from his day's work by daylight on September 13, 1890,
plaintiff was in the caboose, as it neared the Lake Park station, where he and some others of the crew were to leave the
train. The train slowed down as it came to the station and
was running between four and five miles an hour when Potter,
the conductor, gave orders to the men to get off. Three of
the crew jumped down upon the platform of the station,
which was about a foot below the car step. They landed
safely, and plaintiff was then ordered by Potter, the conductor,
to jump. He threw his shovel and dinner pail on the platform so that he might more easily get off himself, and then
jumped in the direction in which the train was moving, supposing that was the safest way. He landed on the platform,
and then in some way fell and hurt himself. He jumped
because, as he said, he was told to by the conductor, and
because he thought he could do so safely, or the conductor
would not have given the order. He relied on the conductor's
direction at the time he jumped, and at that time the train.

NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILROAD v. EGELAND.

95

Opinion of the Court.

which had been slowing up, was going not faster than four
miles an hour.
These are the principal and material points in the case
which the plaintiff's evidence tended to establish as facts.
It must be upon the assumption that they are facts that the
defendant's requests to charge as above set forth are to be
treated.
The trial judge, after the refusal to charge as requested by
the defendant, did charge, among other things, as follows:
"I instruct you that to jump off a railroad train moving at
a rate of speed of four or five miles an hour is presumably a
negligent act per 8e, and that in order to rebut this presumption of negligence and recover for an injury sustained from
so jumping the plaintiff must satisfy you that he was ordered
and directed to do so by the conductor, Potter, and he must
do that by a preponderance of evidence. Plaintiff admits the
jumping, and he attempts to excuse the act, and in order to
do that he must satisfy you that Potter ordered and directed
him so to do, and also that the order was calculated to divert
his attention from the danger of jumping, or that the order
created a situation which interfered with his free agency to
some extent, and such order created a confidence that the
attempt could be made with safety.
"If the danger to be met by jumping was manifestly great,
it was obviously dangerous, so that an ordinarily prudent
person in the same situation would not have jumped, then it
was contributory negligence to obey the direction of the conductor, if the same was given. But if the danger was not
so great under the circumstances but that the plaintiff might
reasonably believe that he could obey it by taking proper care,
particularly as his superior commanded it, and if his purpose
was to obey in pursuance of his sense of duty, and without
waiting to think or consider the risk and danger he jumped,
then it would not be contributory negligence to obey and
jump. So the question that presents itself for your determination is, whether under all the circumstances of the case, if you
should come to the determination that this instruction or com-

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

mand was given by Potter to jump when the train was running at the speed testified, whether the plaintiff under those
circumstances had the right to rely upon the order, whether
he was justified in reasonably believing that he could make
the attempt with safety. If the order was not given and he
voluntarily jumped off the train, seeing that the others had
done so in safety, and he thought he could do the same, then
he took the risk; and if in consequence of so jumping he was
injured he could not recover because it would be contributory
negligence on his part. On the other hand, if the company
was negligent and brought this injury upon the plaintiff
entirely by its negligence and without any fault on his part,
if you find that from the evidence, then the question would
be what compensation shall he have for the injuries he has
sustained, or what amount will remunerate him for the injury
he has suffered."
The charge as above given was duly excepted to by the
plaintiff in error, and it is now urged on its behalf that it was
erroneous to submit the question of contributory negligence
on the part of the plaintiff to the jury, and that the court
should have decided as a matter of law that the plaintiff was
guilty of such negligence, and should have instructed the
jury to return a verdict for the defendant on that ground.
Two cases are cited on behalf of the company as authority
for the position taken on its behalf. They are Railroad Company v. Jones, 95 U. S. 439, and Eresanowski v. NAorthern
Paci9c Railroad,18 Fed. Rep. 229. The case last cited follows the case in 95 U. S., and both are claimed to be fatal to
the right of the plaintiff to recover in this action.
We think the difference between the cases cited and the
case at bar is clear and material. The persons injured in those
cases were seated, in the first case, on the pilot of the engine,
and in the other on the front beam of the engine with his
feet over the pilot. The positions were most dangerous, and
the danger was plain and obvious at the first sight. No other
place on either train was as dangerous, and yet each of the
plaintiffs substantially selected his position as a fit and proper
place to ride in. The great and obvious danger of the posi-

NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILROAD) v. EGELAND.

97

Opinion of the Court.

tions in which the plaintiffs voluntarily placed themselves is
the material and controlling fact upon which the cases were
decided. So great and so obvious was the danger that when it
was urged as an argument in this court that the plaintiff in the
Jones case had been ordered to ride where he did, and that
such order constituted an excuse, the court replied "as well
might he have obeyed a suggestion to ride on the cow-catcher,
or put himself on the track before the advancing wheels of
the locomotive." In neither of the two cases cited was there
in truth an order to ride on the pilot. In the Jones case
the plaintiff had been warned about riding on the pilot and
forbidden to do so. There was room for him in the box car
which was a part of the train, and he could have gone into it
in as little if not less time than it took to climb to the pilot.
The only foundation for the claim that he was directed to do
as he did is found in the statement that when the party was
about to leave on their return that evening the plaintiff was
told by Van Ness, who was in charge of the laborers when
at work, "to jump on anywhere; that they were behind time
and in a hurry." To that the court remarked: "The knowledge, assent or direction of the company's agents as to what
he did is immaterial. If told to get on anywhere, that the
train was late and that he must hurry, this was no justification for taking such a risk. . . . His injury was due to
his own recklessness and folly. He was himself the author
of his misfortune. This is shown with as near an approach
to a demonstration as anything short of mathematics will
permit."
In the case in 18 Fed. Rep., it simply appeared that there
was not room on the engine for all the men who wished to
ride upon their return from their work, unless some rode on
the pilot. There is no pretence of a direction given to ride
there, and even if there had been it would constitute no justification for thus riding, under the rule as given in the Jones
case, 8upra. Both these cases, therefore, stand on the same
ground, which is the exceedingly dangerous position taken by
the plaintiffs upon the engines, the danger of which was open
and obvious to every one, and it was therefore held that the
VOL. cLxm-7

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

necessary inference or legal conclusion to be drawn from these
uncontradicted facts was that the plaintiffs, in their choice of
positions on the engines, were guilty of negligence directly
contributing to the injury.
In this case the question of negligence depends upon the
material difference in the facts, and we are of the opinion
that the inference to be drawn from those facts was not so
plain as to be a legal conclusion, but was one for the jury to
determine. In this case the plaintiff was a servant, a common
laborer, in the employment of the company. He was returning
from his work on a train provided by the company, and that
train was under the command of Potter, the conductor, who
was also the direct superior of the plaintiff and the controller
of his movements while at work. The plaintiff would naturally, therefore, be inclined to obey the orders of such superior,
particularly if they were not of an obviously very dangerous
character. Bearing upon the question of danger was the speed
of the train at the time the plaintiff jumped. It was then
going about four miles per hour, quite slowly; the platform
of the station was but about a foot lower than the car step; it
was broad daylight; three of his fellow-laborers, in obedience to
the orders of the conductor, had themselves jumped and landed
safely upon the platform; the plaintiff states that he jumped
because of this order, and he says he relied on it, supposing
he could jump safely or else the order would not have been
given. Taking all these facts together, ought it to be said,
as a necessary legal inference therefrom, that the plaintiff in
obeying this order was guilty of such an obviously dangerous
act as to constitute contributory negligence on his part? The
act of jumping under such circumstances cannot, with any re-.
gard to common sense, be regarded as of the same obviously
dangerous character and to as great an extent as that of riding
on the pilot of an engine. If plaintiff reasonably thought he
could with safety obey the order by taking care and jumping
carefully, and if because of the order he did jump, the jury
ought to be at liberty to say whether under such circumstances
he was or was not guilty of negligence. If the train had been
going at the rate of thirty, or even fifteen, miles per hour,

NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILROAD v. EGELATD.

99

Opinion of the Court.

the chance of injury resulting from a jump would have been
so great that plaintiff would probably have obeyed such an
order at his own risk. We think a speed of four miles an
hour, considering all the facts hereinabove detailed and including the direction to jump, left the question of contributory
negligence one for the jury. In this respect we think the
trial judge was correct.
This is a different case from one where a would-be passenger
at a railroad station attempts to board a passing train while
it is in quite rapid motion because of the statement of the
conductor on the train that if he wants to take that train he
must jump on, as it would not stop. Hunter v. Cooperstown
c Susquehanna Valley Railroad, 112 N. Y. 371. Here there
is an element of obedience to the command given by the person in charge of the train and of the crew, and given to a
common laborer, and upon a matter where the jury might
find the danger was not so great and so obvious as to render
obedience to the order a risk of the person obeying.
The case was left for the decision of the jury upon all the
facts to say: First, whether the defendant was guilty of negligence in not stopping and giving the order referred to; and,
second, if it were thus guilty, whether the plaintiff was himself guilty of negligence contributing to the injury. The jury
found in favor of the plaintiff on both the above questions,
and we do not think that we ought to interfere.
The judgment should, therefore, be

Affirmed.

