OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Syllabus.

v. Stinchfweld, 159 U. S. 658, 660, and Seneca .Nation of rndians v. Christy, 162 U. S. 283.
In such cases as this it has sometimes been the practice of
this court to affirm the judgment and sometimes to dismiss
the writ. "An examination of our records will show that in
some cases this court has affirmed the judgment of the court
below and sometimes has dismissed the writ of error. This
discrepancy may have originated in a difference of views as
to the precise scope of the questions presented. However
that may be, we think that when we find it unnecessary to
decide any Federal question, and that when the state court
has based its decision on a local or state question, our logical
course is to dismiss the writ." Eustis v. Bolles, szpra. Accordingly the judgment in the case last cited was one of dismissal. The same judgment was given in the two cases in
159 U. S., Rutland R. Ri. Co. v. Central Vermont 1. R. Co.
and Gillis v. Stinchfleld, and also in the very latest case on
the subject, that of the Seneca .Nation v. Christy, 162 U. S.
283.
The proper judgment in this case should, therefore, be one
of dismissal, and the writ is accordingly
Dismissed.

WONG WING v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUrr COURT OF THE UNUTED STATES FOR
THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF MCHIGAN.
No. 204. Argued April 1, 2,1896. -Decided

May 18,1896.

Detention or temporary confinement, as part of the means necessary to give
effect to the exclusion or expulsion of Chinese aliens is valid.
The United States can forbid aliens from coming within their borders, and
expel them from their territory, and can devolve the power and duty of
Identifying and arresting such persons upon executive or subordinate
officials; but when Congress sees fit to further promote such a policy by
subjecting the persons of such aliens to infamous punishment at hard
labor, or by confiscating their property, such legislation, to be valid,
must provide'for a judicial trial to establish the guilt of the accused.

WONG WING v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

ON July 15, 1892, Wong Wing, Lee Poy, Lee Yon Tong
and Chan Wah Dong were brought before John Graves, a
commissioner of the Circuit Court of the United States for
the Eastern District of Michigan, by virtue of a warrant
issued upon the complaint of T. E. McDonough, deputy collector of customs, upon a charge of being Chinese persons unlawfully within the United States and not entitled to remain
within the same. The commissioner found that said persons
were unlawfully within the United States and not entitled to
remain within the same, and he adjudged that they be imprisoned at hard labor at and in the Detroit house of correction
for a period of sixty days from and including the day of commitment, and that at the expiration of said time they be removed from the United States to China.
A writ of habeas copu8 was sued out of the Circuit Court
of the United States, directed to Joseph Nicholson, superintendent of the Detroit house of correction, alleging that said
persons were by him unlawfully detained; the superintendent
made a return setting up the action of the commissioner; and,
after argument, the writ of habeas corpus was discharged, and
the prisoners were remanded to the custody of said Nicholson,
to serve out their original sentence. From this decision an
appeal was taken to this court.
'. -FrankE. Canfield for appellants.
Fielding was on his brief.

Mr. Frederick W.

.Mr. Assistant Attorney General Dickinson for appellees.
Ma. JusTinE Smxs, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.
By the thirteenth section of the act of September 13, 1888,
c. 1015, 25 Stat. 476, 479; it was provided as follows: "That
any Chinese person, or person of Chinese descent, found unlawfully in the United States or its Territories, may be arrested
upon a warrant issued upon a complaint under oath, filed by
any party on behalf of the United States, by any justic6,

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

judge, or commissioner of any United States Court, returnable
before any justice, judge or commissioner of a United States
court, or before any United States court, and when convicted,
upon a hearing, and found and adjudged to be one not lawfully
entitled to be or remain in the United States, such person shall
be removed from the United States to the country whence he
came."
The first section of the act of October 1, 1888, c. 1064, 25
Stat. 504, was in the following terms: "That from and after
the passage of this act it shall be unlawful for any Chinese
laborer who shall at any time heretofore have been, or who
may now or hereafter be, a resident within the United States,
and who shall have departed, or shall depart therefrom, and
shall not have returned before the passage of this act, to return to, or remain in, the United States."
The validity of these acts was assailed because they were
alleged to be in conflict with existing treaties between the
United States and China, and because to deport a Chinaman
who had, under previous laws, a right to return to the United
States, was a punishment which could not be inflicted except
by judicial sentence.
But these contentions were overruled and the validity of
the legislation sustained by this court in the case of Chae Chan
Ping v. United States, 130 U. S. 581. In this case it was
held, in an elaborate decision by Mr. Justice Field, that the
act excluding Chinese laborers from the United States was a
constitutional exercise of legislative power; that, so far as it
conflicted with existing treaties between the United States
and China, it operated to that extent to abrogate them as
part of the municipal law of the United States; and that a
right conferred upon a Chinese laborer, by a certificate issued
in pursuance of previous laws, to return to the United States
could be taken away by a subsequent act of Congress.
On May 5, 1892, by an act of that date, c. 60, 27 Stat. 25,
Congress enacted that all laws then in force, prohibiting and
regulating the coming into this country of Chinese persons
and persons of Chinese descent, should be continued in force
for a period of ten years from the passage of the act. The sixth

WONG WING v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

section of the act was, in part, in the following terms: "And
it shall be the duty of all Chinese laborers within the limits of
the United States, at the time of the.passage of this act, and
who are entitled to remain in the United States, to apply to
the collector of internal revenue of their respective districts,
within one year after the passage of this act, for a certificate
of residence, and any Chinese laborer, within the limits of the
United States, who shall neglect, fail or refuse to comply with
the provisions of this act, or who, after one year from the
passage hereof, shall be found within the jurisdiction of the
United States without such certificate of residence, shall be
deemed and adjudged to be unlawfully within the United
States, and may be arrested by any United States customs
official, collector of internal revenue or his deputies, United
States marshal or his deputies, and taken before a United
States judge, whose duty it shall be to order that he be deported from the United States as hereinbefore provided."
As against the validity of this section, it was contended
that, whatever might be true as to the power of the United
States to exclude aliens, yet there was no power to banish
such aliens who had been permitted to become residents, and
that, if such power did exist, it was in the nature of a punishment, and could only be lawfully exercised after a judicial
trial.
But this court held, in the case of Fong Y"e Ting v. United
Statm, 149 U. S. 698, that the right to exclude or to expel
aliens, or any class of aliens, absolutely or upon certain conditions, in war or in peace, is an inherent and inalienable right
of every sovereign and independent nation; that the power
of Congress to expel, like the power to exclude, aliens or any
class of aliens from the country may be exercised entirely
through executive officers; and that the said sixth section of
the act of May 5, 1892, was constitutional and valid.
The act of August 18, 1894, c. 301, 28 Stat. 372, 390, made
provision for expenses of returning to China all Chinese persons found to be unlawfully in the United States, including
the cost of imprisonment and actual expense of conveyance of
Chinese persons to the frontier or seaboard for deportation,

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

and contained the following enactment: "In every case where
an alien is excluded from admission into the United States
under any law or treaty now existing or hereafter made, the
decision of the appropriate immigration or customs officers, if
adverse to the admission of such alien, shall be final unless
reversed on appeal to the Secretary of the Treasury."
One Lem Moon Sing, a person of the Chinese race, who
claimed to have had a permanent domicil in the United States,
and to have carried on business therein as a merchant before
the passage of the act of August 18, 1894, and to have gone
on a temporary visit to his native land with the intention of
returning and continuing his residence in the United States during which temporary absence the said act was passedwas, on his return, prevented from landing, and was confined
and restrained of his liberty by the collector of the port of
San Francisco. He filed in the District Court of the United
States'for the Northern District of California a petition for a
writ of habeas 0opu S, wherein he alleged that he had not
been apprehended and was not detained by virtue of the judgment, order, decree or other judicial process of any court, or
under any writ or warrant, but under the authority alleged to
have been given to the collector of the port of San Francisco
by the act of August 18, 1894, and that his detention was
without jurisdiction and without due process of law, and
against his rights under the Constitution and laws of the
United States. The writ of habea8 corpus was denied by
the court below, and from this judgment an appeal was
prosecuted to this court.
The contention on behalf of the appellant in the case was
thus stated by Mr. Justice Harlan, who delivered the opinion
of the court:
"The contention is that while, generally speaking, immigration officers have jurisdiction under the statute to exclude
an alien who is not entitled under some treaty or statute to
come into the United States, yet if the alien is entitled, of
right, by some law or treaty, to enter this country, but is,
nevertheless, excluded by such officers, the latter exceed their
jurisdiction, and their alleged action, if it results in restraining

WONG WING v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

the alien of his liberty, presents a judicial question, for the
decision of which the courts may intervene upon a writ of
habeas corpu8."
In considering this position the court said:
"That view, if sustained, would bring into the courts every
case of an alien who claimed the right to come into the United
States under some law or treaty, but was prevented from doing so by the executive branch of the government. This
would defeat the manifest purpose of Congress in committing
to subordinate immigration officers and to the Secretary of the
Treasury exclusive authority to determine whether a particular alien seeking admission into this country belongs to the
class entitled by some law or treaty to come into the country,
or to a class forbidden to enter the United States. Under
that interpretation of the act of 1894 the provision that the decision of the appropriate immigration or customs officers should
be final, unless reversed on appeal to the Secretary of the
Treasury, would be of no practical value.
"The power of Congress to exclude aliens altogether from
the United States, or to prescribe the terms and conditions
upon which they may come to this country, and to have its
declared policy in that regard enforced exclusively through
executive officers, without judicial intervention, is settled by
our previous adjudications."
Accordingly the judgment of the court below denying the
application for the writ of habeas co/rpu was affirmed. 1er
.Moon Sing v. United Statm, 158 U. S. 538.
The present appeal presents a different question from those
heretofore determined. It is claimed that, even if it be competent for Congress to prevent aliens from coming into the
country, or to provide for the deportation of those unlawfully
within its borders, and to submit the enforcement of the provisions of such laws to executive officers, yet the fourth section
of the act of 1892, which provides that "any such Chinese
person, or person of Chinese descent, convicted and adjudged
to be not lawfully entitled to be or remain in the United
States, shall be imprisoned at hard labor for a period not exceeding one year, and thereafter removed from the United

OCTOBER TERIM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

States," inflicts an infamous punishment, and hence conflicts
with the Fifth and Sixth Amendments of the Constitution,
which declare that no person shall be held to answer for a
capital or otherwise infamous crime unless on a presentment
or indictment of a grand jury, and that in all criminal prosecutions the accused shall enjoy the right to a speedy and
public trial, by an impartial jury of the State and district
wherein the crime shall have been committed.
It is argued that, as this court has held, in EparteVilson,
114 IT. S.417, and in -fackin v. United States, 117 U. S.348,
that no person can be held to answer, without presentment or
indictment by a grand jury, for any crime for which an infamous punishment may be imposed by the court, and that
imprisonment at hard labor for a term of years is an infamous
punishment, the detention of the present appellants, in the
house of correction at Detroit, at hard labor for a period of
sixty days, without having been sentenced thereto upon an
indictment by a grand jury and a trial by a jury, is illegal
and without jurisdiction.
On the other hand, it is contended on behalf of the Government that it has never been decided by this court that in all
cases where the punishment may be confinement at hard labor
the crime is infamous, and many cases are cited from the
reports of the state Supreme Courts, where the constitutionality of statutes providing for summary proceedings, without
a jury trial, for the punishment by imprisonment at hard
labor of vagrants and disorderly persons has been upheld.
These courts have held that the constitutional guarantees refer
to such crimes and misdemeanors as have, by the regular
course of the law and the established modes of procedure, been
the subject of trial by jury, and that they do not embrace
every species of accusation involving penal consequences. It
is urged that the offence of being and remaining unlawfully
within the limits of the United States by an alien is a political offence, and is not within the common law cases triable
only by a jury, and that the Constitution does not apply to
such a case.
The Chinese exclusion acts operate upon two classes -one

WONG WING v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

consisting of those who came into the country with its consent, the other of those who have come into the United States
without their consent and in disregard of the law. Our previous decisions have settled that it is within the constitutional
power of Congress to deport both of these classes, and to commit the enforcement of the law to executive officers.
The question now presented is whether Congress can promote its policy in respect to Chinese persons by adding to its
provisions for their exclusion and expulsion punishment by
imprisonment at hard labor, to be inflicted by the judgment
of any justice, judge or commissioner of the United States,
without a trial by jury. In other words, we have to consider
the meaning and validity of the fourth section of the act.of
May 5, 1892, in the following words: "That any such Chinese
person, or person of Chinese descent, convicted and adjudged
to be not lawfully entitled to be and remain in the United
States, shall be imprisoned at hard labor for a period of not
exceeding one year, and thereafter removed from the United
States, as hereinbefore provided."
We think it clear that detention, or temporary confinement,
as part of the means necessary to give effect to the provisions
for the exclusion or expulsion of aliens would be valid. Proceedings to exclude or expel would be vain if those accused
could not be held in custody pending the inquiry into their
true character and while arrangements were being made for
their deportation. Detention is a usual feature of every case
of arrest on a criminal charge, even when an innocent person
is wrongfully accused; but it is not imprisonment in a legal
sense.
So, too, we think it would be plainly competent for Congress to declare the act of an alien in remaining unlawfully
within the United States to be an offence, punishable by fine
or imprisonment, if such offence were to be established by a
judicial trial.
But the evident meaning of the section in question, and no
other is claimed for it by the counsel for the Government, is
that the detention provided for is an imprisonment at hard
labor, which is to be undergone before the sentence of depor-

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

tation is to be carried into effect, and that such imprisonment
is to be adjudged against the accused by a justice, judge or
commissioner, upon a summary hearing. Thus construed,
the fourth section comes before this court for the first time
for consideration as to its validity.
It is, indeed, obvious, from some expressions used by the
court in a previous opinion under the exclusion acts, that it
was perceived that the question now presented might arise;
but care was taken to reserve any expression of opinion upon
it. Thus, in the case of Fong Yue Ting v. United State, 149
U. S. 730, Mr. Justice Gray used the following significant
language:
"The proceeding before a United States judge, as provided
for in section 6 of the act of 1892, is in no proper sense a trial
and sentence for a crime or offence. It is simply the ascer.
tainment, by appropriate and lawful means, of the fact
whether the conditions exist upon which Congress has enacted that an alien of this class may remain within the country. The order of deportation is not a punishment for crime.
It is not a banishment, in the sense in which that word is
often applied to the expulsion of a citizen from his country by
way of punishment. It is but a method of enforcing the return to his own country of an alien who has not complied
with the conditions upon the performance of which the government of the nation, acting within its constitutional authority and through the proper departments, has determined that
his continuing to reside here shall depend. He has not, therefore, been deprived of life, liberty or property, without due
process of law; and the provisions of the Constitution, securing the right of trial by jury, and prohibiting unreasonable
searches and seizures, and cruel and unusual punishments,
have no application."
There is an evident implication, in this language, of a distinction between those provisions of the statute which contemplate only the exclusion or expulsion of Chinese persons
and those which provide for their imprisonment at hard labor,
pending which their deportation is suspended.
Our views, upon the question thus specifically pressed upon

WONG WING v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

our attention, may be briefly expressed thus We regard it as
settled by our previous decisions that the United States can,
as a matter of public policy, by Congressional enactment,
forbid aliens or classes of aliens from coming within their
borders, and expel aliens or classes of aliens from their territory, and can, in order to make effectual such decree of exclusion or expulsion, devolve the power and duty of identifying and arresting the persons included in such decree, and
causing their deportation, upon executive or subordinate officials.
But when Congress sees fit to further promote such a policy by subjecting the persons of such aliens to infamous punishment at hard labor, or by confiscating their property, we
think such legislation, to be valid, must provide for a judicial
trial to establish the guilt of the accused.
No limits can be put by the courts upon the power of Congress to protect, by summary methods, the country from the
advent of aliens whose race or habits render them undesirable
as citizens, or to expel such if they have already found their
way into our land and unlawfully remain therein. But to
declare unlawful residence within the country to be an infamous crime, punishable by deprivation of liberty and property, would be to pass out of the sphere of constitutional
legislation, unless provision were made that the fact of guilt
should first be established by a judicial trial It is not consistent with the theory of our government that the legislature
should, after having defined an offence as an infamous crime,
find the fact of guilt and adjudge the punishment by one of
its own agents.
In Ex parte WiZsn, 114 U. S. 428, this court declared that
for more than a century imprisonment at hard labor in the
state prison or penitentiary or other similar institution has been
considered an infamous punishment in England and America,
and that imprisonment at hard labor, compulsory and unpaid,
is, in the strongest sense of the words, "involunt a ry servitude
for crime," spoken of in the provision of the Ordinance of
1787, and of the Thirteenth Amendment of the Constitution,
by which all other slavery was abolished, and which declares

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Mr. Justice Field's Opinion.

that such slavery or involuntary servitude shall not exist
within the United States or any place subject to their jurisdiction, except as a punishment for crime whereof the party
shall have been duly convicted.
And in the case of Yiek Wo v. Hopkins, 118 U. S. 356,
369, it was said: "The Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution is not confined to the protection of citizens. It says:
'Nor shall any State deprive any person of life, liberty or
property without due process of law; nor deny to any person
within its jurisdiction the equal protection of the law.' These
provisions are universal in their application to all persons
within the territorial jurisdiction, without regard to any differences of race, of color, or nationality; and the equal protection
of the laws is a pledge of the protection of equal laws."
Applying this reasoning to the Fifth and Sixth Amendments,
it must be concluded that all persons within the territory of
the United States are entitled to the protection guaranteed
by those amendments, and that even aliens shall not be held
to answer for a capital or other infamous crime, unless on a
presentment or indictment of a grand jury, nor be deprived
of life, liberty or property without due process of law.
Our conclusion is that the commissioner, in sentencing the
appellants to imprisonment at hard labor at and in the Detroit
house of correction, acted without jurisdiction, and that the
Circuit Court erred in not discharging the prisoners from such
imprisonment, without prejudice to their detention according
to law for deportation.
The judgment of the Circuit Court is reversed and the cause
remanded to that court with directions to proceed therein
in accordance with this pinion.
MR. Jusicn. FIELD, concurring in part and dissenting in part.

The majority of the justices, in this case, hold that whatever might be true as to the power of the United States to
exclude aliens, yet there was no power to punish such aliens
who had been permitted to become residents, and that, if such
power did exist, it could only be lawfully exercised after a

WONG WING v. UNITED STATES.
Mr. Justice Field's Opinion.

judicial trial, and therefore that the accused were entitled to
be discharged from their arrest and imprisonment. To that
extent their opinion is concurred in.
But I do not concur, but dissent entirely from what seemed
to me to be harsh and illegal assertions, made by counsel of
the Government, on the argument of this case, as to the right
of the court to deny to the accused the full protection of the
law and Constitution against every form of oppression and
cruelty to them.
Wong Wing, one of the petitioners on proceedings to be
released from the alleged unlawful imprisonment, is a subject
of the Chinese Government, with which the Government of
the United States has relations of peace and amity. This
Chinaman and three other persons of the same race and
country were in the month of July, 1892, found within the
city of Detroit, in the Eastern District of Michigan, and
upon the complaint of the deputy collector of customs at
that place, made to a United States Circuit Court commissioner for that district, that they were unlawfully within
the limits of the United States, a warrant for their arrest
was issued by the commissioner, and they were accordingly
arrested and taken before him for inquiry into the correctness of the charge.
Upon examination before the commissioner upon the charge
it was held by him that the Chinese persons named were unlawfully within the United States, and his judgment was that
they should be imprisoned at hard labor in the house of correction at Detroit, in the Eastern District of Michigan, for a
period of sixty days from and including that date, and that
at the expiration of that period they should be removed from
the United States to China.
The Chinese thus arrested and committed immediately
applied to the judges of the United states court for the
Eastern District of Michigan, for a writ of Aabeas corpaus, to
be released from their imprisonment and restraint of their
liberty, alleging that the same were unlawful, without warrant
of law and contrary to the Constitution and laws of the United
States; and that they were made under the act of Congress

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Mr. Justice Field's Opinion.

approved May 5, 1892, entitled "An act to prohibit the coming of Chinese persons into the United States."
The petitioners alleged that the proceedings and conviction
were wholly without jurisdiction on the part of the commissioner and without warrant and authority of law. They
therefore prayed that the writ might issue commanding the
superintendent of the Detroit house of correction to forthwith bring the petitioners before the court and show cause, if
any there be, why they should be further detained and deprived of their liberty. The writ was immediately issued and
served upon the superintendent, commanding him to have the
bodies of the arrested and imprisoned Chinese upon a day and
hour designated before the court, together with the time and
cause of such imprisonment and detention.
The superintendent immediately appeared before the court
and produced the arrested and imprisoned persons with a copy
of the commitment issued by the commissioner at a session of
the Circuit Court of the United States for the Eastern District
of Michigan, held pursuant to adjournment in the District
Court room in the city of Detroit on Friday, the 22d day of
July, 1892, Honorable Henry H. Swan, District Judge, being
present, and after argulnents of counsel were heard, the court
ordered that the writ of habeas corpus be discharged, and that
the persons arrested be remanded to the custody of Nicholson,
the keeper of the District house of correction, to serve their
original sentences.
The prisoners now allege that they are aggrieved by the
decision of the court, and are advised that the judgment and
order are erroneous upon the following, among other grounds:
First, because the commitment and imprisonment of the
petitioners in the house of correction are unlawful and without warrant of law, and contrary to the Constitution and laws
of the United States; that the proceedings and conviction of
the petitioners before the commissioner were wholly without
jurisdiction on his part, and without warrant or authority of
law; that for these and other reasons appearing upon the
face of the proceedings the petitioners, feeling themselves
aggrieved by the judgment and decision of the Circuit Court,

WONG WING v. UNITED STATES.
Mr. Justice Field's Opinion.

appeal therefrom to the Supreme Court of the United States,
and pray that the appeal may be allowed, and, in accordance
with the rules and practice of that court, pending the appeal
they may be admitted to bail, which prayer was granted.
The question involved is whether a Chinese person can be
lawfully convicted and sentenced to imprisonment at hard
labor for a definite period by a commissioner without indictment or trial by jury. The question involves the constitutionality of section 4 of the act of 1892.
It is submitted that this section is invalid because it conflicts
with the Fifth Amendment of the Constitution, which declares that "no person shall be held to answer for a capital,
or other infamous crime, unless on a presentment or indictment of a grand jury,

.

.

.

nor be deprived of life, liberty

or property without due process of law," and also conflicts
with the Sixth Amendment of the Constitution, which provides that "in all criminal prosecutions, the accused shall enjoy the right to a speedy and public trial, by an impartial jury
of the State and district wherein the crime shall have been
committed."
It does not follow that, because the Government may expel
aliens or exclude them from coming to this country, it can
confine them at hard labor in a penitentiary before deportation or subject them to any harsh and cruel punishment. If
the imprisonment of a human being at hard labor in a penitentiary for any misconduct or offence is not punishment, it is
difficult to understand how anything short of the infliction of
the death penalty for such misconduct or offence is punishment. It would seem to be not only punishment, but punishment infamous in its character, which, under the provisions of
the Constitution of the United States, can only be inflicted
upon a person after his due conviction of crime pursuant to
the forms and provisions of law.
Section 4 of the act of 1892 provides: "That any Chinese
person or person of Chinese descent, convicted and adjudged
to be not lawfully entitled to be or remain in the United
States, shall be imprisoned at hard labor for a period not
exceeding one year, and thereafter removed from the United
Vol.. cr.xn-16

OCTOBER TERTM, 1895.
Mr. Justice Field's Opinion.

States, as hereinbefore provided," and whenever the law provides that imprisonment shall follow a trial and conviction of
the offender, it necessarily intends that such imprisonment
shall be inflicted as punishment for the offence of which the
person has been convicted. Imprisonment at hard labor for a
definite period is not only punishment, but it is punishment
of an infamous character.
Imprisonment at hard labor in a state prison is also servitude, to which no person under the Constitution can be subjected except as a punishment for crime, whereof he shall have
been duly convicted.
In Ex 2arte Wilson, 114 U. S. 417, the court said: "Imprisonment at hard labor, compulsory and unpaid, is, in the
strongest sense of the words, ' involuntary servitude for crime,'
spoken of in the Ordinance of 1787 and of the Thirteenth
Amendment of the Constitution, by which all other slavery
was abolished."
In 2 Story on the Constitution, ยง 1924, it is said that this
amendment "forbids not merely the slavery heretofore known
to our laws, but all kinds of involuntary servitude not imposed
in punishment for a public offence."
The provisions of the Fifth, Sixth and Thirteenth Amendments of the Constitution apply as well to Chinese persons
who are aliens as to American citizens.
The term "person," used in the Fifth Amendment, is broad
enough to include any and every human being within the jurisdiction of the republic. A resident, alien born, is entitled to
the same protection under the laws that a citizen is entitled
to. He owes obedience to the laws of the country in which he
is domiciled, and, as a consequence, he is entitled to the equal
protection of those laws.
This has been decided so often that the point does not require argument. Yick 1e v. Hopkins, 118 U. S. 356. 369;
Ho Ah ow v. _7unan, 5 Sawyer, 552; Carlisle v. United
States, 16 Wall. 147; In re Lee Tong, 18 Fed. Rep. 253; In re
Wong Yung Quy, 6 Sawyer, 237; In re Chow Goo Pooi, 25
Fed. Rep. 77.
The contention that persons within the territorial jurisdic-

WONG WING v. UNITED STATES.
Mr. Justice Field's Opinion.

tion of this republic might be beyond the protection of the
law was heard with pain on the argument at the bar -in face
of the great constitutional amendment which declares that no
State shall deny to any person within its jurisdiction the equal
protection of the laws. Far nobler was the boast of the great
French Cardinal who exercised power in the public affairs of
France for years, that never in all his time did he deny justice
to any one. "For fifteen years," such were his words, "while
in these hands dwelt empire, the humblest craftsman, the obscurest vassal, the very leper shrinking from the sun, though
loathed by charity, might ask for justice."
It is to be hoped that the poor Chinamen, now before us
seeking relief from cruel oppression, will not find their appeal
to our republican institutions and laws a vain and idle proceeding.
But whilst remarking upon and denouncing in the strongest
language every form of cruelty and barbarity in the legislation or proceedings adopted for the expulsion or exclusion of
Chinese from the country, who do not enter by the permission
of the Government, in order to avoid a misconception of its
authorized action in that respect the declarations of the court
with regard to the aliens named as to their entrance and as to
the time and manner of their departure are adopted.
And the statement of the court in the present case that the
United States can, as a matter of public policy, by Congressional legislation, forbid aliens or classes of aliens from their
territory, and can, in order to make effectual such legislation
for their exclusion or expulsion, devolve the power and duty of
identifying and arresting them, and causing their deportation
upon executive or subordinate officials, is accepted as sound.
And the further views announced by the court that when
Congress sees fit to promote such a policy by subjecting the
persons of such aliens to infamous punishment at hard labor,
or by confiscating their property, such legislation to be valid
must provide for an arrest and trial to establish the guilt of
the accused, are also accepted and adopted. "It is not consistent," as truly said by the court, "1with the theory of our government that the legislature should after having defined an

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Statement of the Case.

offence as an infamous crime provide that the fact of infamy
shall be established by one of its own agents."
MR. JUSTICE
case.

BREWER

took no part in the decision of this

UNITED STATES v. WINCHESTER AND POTOMAC
RAILROAD COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No.195. Argued March 31,April 1, 1896. -Decided

May 18, 1896.

The Court of Claims had no jurisdiction over this case, as the claim of the
W
defendant in error is a " ar Claim," growing out of the appropriation
of property by the army while engaged in the suppression of the rebellion.

THis appeal brought up for review a judgment in favor of
the Winchester and Potomac Railroad Company for the sum
of thirty thousand three hundred and forty dollars, the value
of certain iron rails removed in 1862 from the track of that
railroad by the military authorities of the United States.
It seems necessary to a clear understanding of the questions
presented that the history of this claim and the circumstances
attending its prosecution against the United States should be
fully stated.
In 1862 and for many years prior thereto the appellee, a
corporation of Virginia, owned and operated the railroad extending from Harper's Ferry to Winchester in the State of
Virginia. Its capital stock was largely owned by citizens
of loyal States.
In March of that year the military authorities of the United
States took possession of the road, which at the time was operated by the company for the use and benefit of the Confederate States in the transportation of troops, munitions of war,
and other subjects under a contract made September 11, 1861,
between an officer of the Confederate States Army and the
president of the railroad company.

