OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Statement of the Case.

offence as an infamous crime provide that the fact of infamy
shall be established by one of its own agents."
MR. JUSTICE
case.

BREWER

took no part in the decision of this

UNITED STATES v. WINCHESTER AND POTOMAC
RAILROAD COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No.195. Argued March 31,April 1, 1896. -Decided

May 18, 1896.

The Court of Claims had no jurisdiction over this case, as the claim of the
W
defendant in error is a " ar Claim," growing out of the appropriation
of property by the army while engaged in the suppression of the rebellion.

THis appeal brought up for review a judgment in favor of
the Winchester and Potomac Railroad Company for the sum
of thirty thousand three hundred and forty dollars, the value
of certain iron rails removed in 1862 from the track of that
railroad by the military authorities of the United States.
It seems necessary to a clear understanding of the questions
presented that the history of this claim and the circumstances
attending its prosecution against the United States should be
fully stated.
In 1862 and for many years prior thereto the appellee, a
corporation of Virginia, owned and operated the railroad extending from Harper's Ferry to Winchester in the State of
Virginia. Its capital stock was largely owned by citizens
of loyal States.
In March of that year the military authorities of the United
States took possession of the road, which at the time was operated by the company for the use and benefit of the Confederate States in the transportation of troops, munitions of war,
and other subjects under a contract made September 11, 1861,
between an officer of the Confederate States Army and the
president of the railroad company.

UNITED STATES v. WINCHESTER &c. RAILROAD.

245

Statement of the Case.
The possession of the United States covered substantially
the whole time from March, 1862, to the 20th day of January,
1866, and during that period the Government had the exclusive use of the road for military purposes, receiving all tolls
and revenues and applying the same to its benefit.
The United States, while in possession, repaired the road,
and removed from it a quantity of strap rails and substituted
T rails taken by it from the Manassas Gap Railroad Company.
These T rails were upon the Winchester "and Potomac Railroad up to the time possession was surrendered by the United
States in 1866. The strap rails or iron so removed from the
Winchester and Potomac Railroad were stored at Alexandria,
Virginia.
The United States has never paid or accounted to the claimant for the revenues of its road which it collected and appropriated, nor for the rails so removed.
Immediately upon the restoration of the roads of the above
companies to their respective owners, the Manassas Gap Railroad Company brought suit against the Winchester and Potomac Railroad Company for the iron taken from its own road
and put upon the latter road, or its value, and obtained judgment, which was compromised in 1873 or 1874 by the payment by the Winchester and Potomac Railroad Company of
$25,000.
The circumstances under which the appellee's road was surrendered by the United States are fully disclosed in the findings below, and, so far as pertinent to the present inquiry,
may be thus summarized:
On the 19th day of May, 1865, the Quartermaster General
submitted to the Secretary of War a scheme for the disposition of the railroads in the States then lately in rebellion.
That scheme was as follows:
"1. The United States will, as soon as it can dispense with
the military occupation and control of any road of which the
Quartermaster's Department is now in charge, turn it over to
the parties asking to receive it who may appear to have the
best claim, and be able to operate it in such manner as to
secure the speedy movement of all military stores and troops;

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Statement of the Case.

the Quartermaster General, upon the advice of the military
commander of the department, to determine when this can
be done, subject to the approval of the Secretary of War.
2. No charge to be made against the railroad for expense of
material or expense of operation. 3. All materials for permanent way used in the repair and construction of the road,
and all damaged material of this class which may be left
along its route, having been thrown there during the operation of destructioii or repair, to be considered as part of the
road and given up with it. 4. No payment or credit to be
given to the railroad for its occupation or use by the United
States during the continuance of the military necessity which
compelled the United States to take possession of it by capture
from the public enemy. The recovery of the road from the
public enemy and its return to loyal owners, and the vast expenditure of defence and repair, are a full equivalent and more
than an equivalent for its use. 5. All movable property, including rolling stock of all kinds, the property of the United
States, to be sold at auction, after full public notice, to the
highest bidder. 6. All rolling stock and material, the property before the war of railroads, and captured by the forces
of the United States, to be placed at the disposal of the roads
which originally owned it, and to be given up to these roads
as soon as it can be spared, and they appear by proper agents
authorized to receive it. 7. When a State has a board of public works able and willing to take charge of -its railroads, the
railroads in the possession of the Quartermaster's Department
to be given up to this board of public works, leaving it to the
state authorities and the judicial tribunals to regulate all
questions of property between said boards, agents or stockholders. 8. Roads not being operated by the United States
Quartermaster's Department not to be interfered with unless
under military necessity. Such roads to be left in possession
of such persons as may now have possession, subject only to
the removal of every agent, director, president, superintendent
or operator who has not taken the oath of allegiance to the
United States, which rule should be rigidly enforced. 9.
When the superintendents in actual possession decline to take-

UNITED STATES v. WINCHESTER &c. RAILROAD.

247

Statement of the Case.
such oath, softe competent person to be appointed as receiver
of the railroad, who shall administer the affairs of the road
and account for its receipts to the board of directors who
may be formally recognized as the legal and loyal board of
managers. This receiver to be appointed, as in the case
of other abandoned property, by the Treasury Department.
.
"
The Secretary of War approved that scheme, and the
Quartermaster General was directed to turn over the roads.
Certain regulations were established by the War Department, and promulgated August 8, .865, and October 14, 1865,
for the guidance of the military authorities in relinquishing the
control of railroads in the occupancy of the United States.
In reply to an oral application made November 16, 1865,
by the Winchester and Potomac Railroad Company to have
its road restored upon the terms accorded to other companies,
the matter was referred by the Secretary of War to the
Quartermaster General for such arrangement and recommendation as he deemed proper. The Quartermaster General
recommended that the application be granted, and the officer
in charge of military roads was directed to surrender possession - "all rolling stock and railroad materials upon that road,
which the company may not elect to purchase, to be sold, as
soon as preparation can be made, at public auction."
This order not having been immediately executed, the president of the Winchester and Potomac Railroad Company, December 5, 1865, made a request in writing that his company's
road be delivered up to its board of directors. Thereupon,
on the 15th of December, 1865, an order for the surrender
of the road was issued. That order was executed by the
delivering the road, on the 16th day of January, 1866, to the
Baltimore and Ohio Railroad Company, as lessees of the Winchester and Potomac Railroad Company.
The facts in relation to the disposition of the iron removed
by the military authorities of the United States from the
Winchester and Potomac Railroad and stored at Alexandria
are as follows:
On the same day on which the president of the Winchester

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Statement of the Case.

and Potomac Railroad Company made verbal application
for the restoration of the road to his company, he addressed
to the director and general manager of military railroads a
communication in which he said: "We are informed that a
quantity of the iron from our road - fiat or strap bar - is now

in possession of your department at Alexandria, Va., which
we are anxious to recover, as we hope the road is about to be
returned to the company. We respectfully request that the
fact may be inquired into, and, if proper, an order made to
return the said iron to my order, as president of the company."
No answer was returned to this application, nor were any
affidavits or other proof of the ownership or value of the iron
mentioned, nor of any of the other facts therein alleged,
offered to or filed in any Executive Department, prior to
May 11, 1885, on which day the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad
Company made a written application, to which reference will
be presently made. But at or about the date of the above
communication of November 16, 1865, the president of the
Winchester and Potomac Railroad Company made an application to the Quartermaster General for this iron.
A large quantity of iron, stored at Alexandria and in the
possession of the United States, and aggregating more than
$2,000,000 in value, was sold at public auction on December 13,
1865. The iron taken in 1862 from the appellee's road was
part of the iron so disposed of. It sold for $30,340, and was
paid for January 9, 1866, the proceeds being used, through
the War Department, for the benefit of the United States.
On the 2d day of December, 1875, the president of the Balti.
more and Ohio Railroad Company addressed to the Quartermaster General a communication, saying: "Subsequent to the
termination of the late war the United States military railroad authorities sold a quantity of old rails in Alexandria, Va.,
which had been taken from the line of the Winchester and
Potomac Railroad. I have the honor to request that you will
furnish me with the dates the said rails were sold, the quantity sold, the price per ton, the amount realized from the sale
of the rails taken from the line of the Winchester and Potomac Railroad, and the disposition made by the U. S. M. R. R'd

UNITED STATES v. WINCHESTER &c. RAILROAD.

249

Statement of the Case.

managers of the proceeds. You will further oblige me by
stating the date on which the Winchester and Potomac Railroad was surrendered by the War Department to its owners."
The Quartermaster General replied, under date of December 11, 1875, giving him exact information touching all the
matters about which inquiry was made.
Nothing seems to have been done by the claimant or by
any one in its name, until May 11, 1885, when the Baltimore
and Ohio Railroad Company, by its president, made to the
Quartermaster General a written application or claim for the
proceeds of the sale of said iron, as follows:
"The United States to the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad
Company, lessee of the Winchester and Potomac Railroad
Company, Dr.
"For 507 tons 1940 pounds (2240 pounds to the ton) of iron
rails appertaining to the Winchester and Potomac Railroad
Company, and the property of that company, which once
formed a part of its superstructure when taken by the United
States authorities, and was subsequently sent to Alexandria,
Va., and sold at auction by the United States Military Railroad Department in December, 1865, for the sum of $30,340."
This application was forwarded to the Secretary of War,
and was by him returned to the Quartermaster General. The
latter officer made an elaborate report, under date of December 7, 1885, in which, among other things, he said: "The
only reason which can be given for the failure of the company
to secure possession of its old iron is the fact that the company was not in condition to receive it before its sale. If the
transfer of the road to the Winchester and Potomac Railroad
Company had been authorized and effected before the sale of
the iron it is believed that the company would have been permitted to take possession of it. A denial of this privilege or
right would have involved an unjust discrimination by the
Government between the treatment of this company and that
of all other companies whose roads were used for military
purposes during the war, and would have been a marked departure from the policy and practice of the Government toward
such companies upon the restoration of their roads. .

OCTOBER TER-I, 1895.
Statement of the Case.

But it is not believed to be in the power of the Executive
Department to afford relief at this time without the intervention of Congress. . . . It is, therefore, respectfully recommended, if this report be approved, that this claim, with the
papers accompanying it, be referred to the Third Auditor for
adjudication by the accounting officers of the Treasury, with
recommendation for such action as the law and facts of the
case require."
The Secretary of War approved this report, and " the accompanying papers in the claim of the Baltimore and Ohio
Railroad Company for the proceeds of railroad iron, stated
by the company at $30,340," were "referred (through the
office of the Quartermaster General) to the Third Auditor of
the Treasury for settlement from the appropriation 'Transportation of the Army and its supplies,' the amount found
due to be reported to Congress, for appropriation."
On the 4th day of March 1887 the Third Auditor reported
against the claim, but without expressing an opinion on its
merits if such claim should ever be presented by the Winchester and Potomac Railroad Company.
Thereupon the Winchester and Potomac Railroad Company
was substituted as claimant in interest in place of the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad Company, its lessee, claiming on its
behalf.
On the 18th day of April, 1887, the Third Auditor again
recommended the disallowance of the claim and certified the
matter to the Second Comptroller of the Treasury.
The Second Comptroller, March 9, 1889, sent the claim,
with accompanying papers, to the Secretary of the Treasury
as one involving disputed facts and controverted questions of
law, with a recommendation that the case, vouchers, etc., be
transmitted to the Court of Claims for trial and adjudication.
The Secretary, March 12, 1889, sent the claim, with the
papers, to the Court of Claims, under section 1063 of the Revised Statutes, for trial and adjudication, expressing, however, doubt whether the Department had jurisdiction of it,
but submitting that question to that court for its determination.

UNITED STATES v. WINCHESTER &c. RAILROAD.

251

Opinion of the Court.

.Mr. A88i8tant Attorey GeneraZ Dickinsoa for appellant.
-Mr. Frank P. Clark for appellee.
The whole argument of the appellant is based upon the
assumption that this claim is a "War Claim."
It is nothing of the kind; it is a claim founded upon a contract, and one entered into after the war had ended.
I venture the proposition that were the United States to
make a conract,express or implied, with an enemy in arms,
the Court of Claims would have jurisdiction of a case instituted to recover damages for its breach.
In the Sinking .Fundcase8, 99 U. S. 700, 719, this court,
speaking through its late lamented Chief Justice, have said:
"The United States are as much bound by their contracts as
are individuals. If they repudiate their obligations, it is as
much repudiation, with all the wrong and reproach that term
implies, as it would be if the repudiator had been a State or a
municipality or a citizen."
Can there be any question, as between individuals, that the
same state of facts as have been certified up to this court in
this case would be held by any court to constitute a contract
for the breach of which either party thereto would be entitled to damages, and that the amount of damages would be
the value of the iron ?
MR.JUSTICE HARLAN, after stating the case as above, delivered the opinion of the court.
The United States contends that the claim in question is not
one of which the Court of Claims could take cognizance for
purposes of final adjudication; that the case is not one of implied contract; and that the Government is protected from
any judgment against it by the statutory limitation of six
years. The first of these questions does not seem to have
been raised in the court below.
The act of February 24, 1855, c. 122, by which the Court
of Claims was constituted, gave it jurisdiction to hear and determine all claims against the United States "founded upon

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

any law of Congress, or upon any regulation of an Executive
Department, or upon any contract, express or implied, with
the Government of the United States." 10 Stat. 612. But
by a subsequent act passed July 4, 1864, c. 240, it was declared "that the jurisdiction of the Court of Claims shall not
extend to or include any claim against the United States
growing out of the destruction or appropriation of, or damage
to, property by the army or navy, or any part of the army or
navy, engaged in the suppression of the rebellion, from the
commencement to the close thereof." 13 Stat. 381.
By the act of February 21, 1867, c. 57, it was provided
that the act of 1864 should "not be construed to authorize the
settlement of any claim for supplies or stores taken or furnished for the use of, or used by the armies of the United
States, nor for the occupation of, or injury to, real estate, nor
for the consumption, appropriation or destruction of, or damage to, personal property, by the military authorities or troops
of the United States, where such claim originated during the
war for the suppression of the Southern rebellion, in a State,
or part of a State, declared in insurrection." 14 Stat. 397.
The Revised Statutes omitted the provisions of the acts of
1864 and 1867. Whether that omission was intentional or
not, we need not inquire; for, by the act of February 18,
1875, c. 80, which was passed to correct errors and supply
omissions in the Revised Statutes, section 1059, enumerating
the matters or cases of which the Court of Claims could take
cognizance, was amended by adding to its fourth paragraph
the following additional proviso: "Prnovided, also, That the
jurisdiction of the Court of Claims shall not extend to any
claim against the United States growing out of the destruction or appropriation of, or damage to, property by the army
or navy engaged in the suppression of the rebellion." 18
Stat. 318.
The Tucker act of March 3, 1887, c. 859, expressly withholds from the Court of Claims, and from the District and
Circuit Courts of the United States, "jurisdiction to hear and
determine claims growing out of the late civil war, and commonly known as ' War Claims.' " 24 Stat. 505.

UNITED STATES v. WINCHESTER &c. RAILROAD.

253

Opinion of the Court.

It thus appears that at the time the appellee, by its president, made application to the military authorities to have its
road, as well as the iron rails in question, restored to its possession, the Court of Claims was without authority to adjudicate any claim against the United States "growing out of"
the destruction or "appropriation" of or damage to property
by the army or navy engaged in the suppression of the rebellion; further, that at the time the appellee's claim was
transmitted by the Secretary of the Treasury to the Court of
Claims for adjudication that court was without jurisdiction to
hear and determine claims "growing out of the late civil war
and commonly known as 'War Claims.'" Of course, the
"War Claims" to which the act of 1887 referred included
those described in the previous acts as claims growing out of
the destruction or appropriation or damage to property by
the army or navy engaged in the suppression of the rebellion.
Is the claim of the appellee a "War Claim" within the
meaning of the act of 1887? Light will be thrown upon
this question by the decisions construing the act of 1864,
which excluded from the jurisdiction of the Court of Claims
any claim "growing out of" the destruction or "appropriation" of property, by the army or navy engaged in the suppression of the rebellion.

In Filor v. United States, 9 Wall. 45, 48,4 9, it appeared that
a certain wharf and its appurtenances at Key West, Florida,
were in the use and occupation of the United States during
the civil war under an agreement as to rental between an
acting assistant quartermaster, stationed at that place, and
the owner of the property, but the agreement was not
approved by the Quartermaster General. This court said:
"No lease of the premises for the use of the Quartermaster's
Department, or any branch of it, could be binding upon the
Government until approved by the Quartermaster General.
Until such approval the action of the officers at Key West
was as ineffectual to fix any liability upon the Government
as if they had been entirely disconnected from the public
service. The agreement or lease was, so far as the Government is concerned, the work of strangers. The obligation

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

of the Government for the use of the property is exactly
what it would have been if the possession had been taken
and held without the existence of the agreement. Any obligation of that character cannot be considered by the Court
of Claims." Referring to the provisions of the above act of
July 4, 1861, the court proceeded: "The premises of the
petitioners were thus appropriated by a portion of the army.
It matters not that the petitioners, supposing that the officers
at Key West could bind the Government to pay a stipulated
rent for the premises, consented to such appropriation. The
manner of the appropriation, whether made by force or upon
the consent of the owner, does not affect the question of jurisdiction. The consideration of any claim, whatever its character, growing out of such appropriation is excluded. The
term appropriation is of the broadest import; it includes all
taking and use of property by the army and navy, in the
course of the war, not authorized by contract with the Government.

.

.

.

If the petitioners are entitled to compen-

sation for the use of the property they must seek it from
Congress."
The case of United States v. Russell, 13 Wall. 623, 632, was
somewhat different in its facts. That was a suit to recover
for the use of certain steamboats used in the public service
by the military authorities at St. Louis, Missouri, in 1863. It
appeared from the findings of the Court of Claims that the
military officers did not intend to "appropriate" the steamboats to the United States, nor even their services, although
they did intend to compel the masters and crews, with the
steamers, to perform the services needed, and that the United
States should pay a reasonable compensation for such services;
that such was the understanding of the owner; and that the
steamers, as soon as the services for which they were required
had been performed, were returned to the exclusive possession and control of the owner. The steamers were equipped,
victualled and manned by the owner, and he, or persons by
him appointed, continued in their command throughout the
entire period of the service. "He yielded at once," this court
said, "to the military order, and entered into the service of

7UNITED STATES v. WINCHESTER &c. RAILROAD.

255

Opinion of the Court.

the Government, and the court here fully concur with the
Court of Claims that there was not such an appropriation of
the steamboats or of the services of the masters and crews
as prohibited the court below from taking jurisdiction of the
case. On the contrary, the court is of the opinion that the
findings of the Court of Claims show that the employment
and use of the steamboats were such as raise an implied
promise on the part of the United States to reimburse the
owner for the services rendered and the expenses incurred,
as allowed by the Court of Claims. Valuable services, it is
conceded, were rendered by the appellee, and it is not pretended that the amount allowed is excessive. Neither of the
steamers was destroyed, nor is anything claimed as damages,
and inasmuch as the findings show that an appropriation of
the steamers was not intended, and that both parties understood that a reasonable compensation for the services was to
be paid by the United States, the court is of the opinion that
the objection to the jurisdiction of the Court of Claims cannot be sustained, as the claim is not for 'the destruction or
appropriation of or damage to property by the army or navy
engaged in the suppression of the rebellion.'"
Another case is that of Pugh v. United Satme, 13 Wall. 633,
634, 635. In the petition in that case the claimant averred
4"that the United States, during the late civil war, illegally,
violently and forcibly took possession of his plantation, in the
State of Louisiana, on the false pretext that it had been abandoned by the owner, and held it until January, 1866, during
which time the United States, and the agents placed in charge
of the plantation, destroyed and carried away the property
of the petitioner to the value of $42,508; and that the United
States, during the same period, rented the plantation to sundry
persons, who made large clops, worth $15,000 or $30,000."
Chief Justice Chase, speaking for the court, said: "The destruction of the property complained of was during the war
and in one of the States engaged in the rebellion, and the
presumption, in the absence of inconsistent allegations, is that
it was by the military forces of the United States. It is clear
that a petition for compensation for injuries of this character

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

could not be sustained in the Court of Claims, for the demand
plainly grows "out of the destruction or appropriation of or
damage to property by the army or navy engaged in the suppression of the rebellion,' and is excluded from the cognizance
of that court by the express terms of the act of July 4,
1861.

.

.

.

It is plain, therefore, that the petition does not

state a case within the jurisdiction of the Court of Claims. If
the petitioner has any claim upon the Government he must
seek relief from Congress."
The present case is controlled by the decisions in Filor v.
United States and Pugh v. United States. It is not a case,
like that of United States v. Russell, of the use of property
under a valid implied agreement that the owner should be
compensated; but is one of the actual appropriation by the
military authorities of the United States, engaged in the suppression of the rebellion, of property which, at the time of
such appropriation, was being employed by the Confederate
Government in hostility to the Union. The transaction had
no element of contract, but was wholly military in character.
In R sse s case, the owner of the property acquiesced in its
use by the Government, and there was such an understanding between the Government and himself as made it, in the
opinion of this court, the duty of the former under the Constitution to make just compensation to the latter. In the
case now before us, the road and its appurtenances were
seized without regard to the assent of the owner and without
any understanding that compensation was to be made. Indeed,
it would not have been competent for the military authorities
of the United States to have bound the Government to make
compensation to the appellee for the use or for the return of
property which, when seized, was being actively employed,
under a contract with its owner, to advance the cause of the
rebellion. If the appellee's road and the iron upon it were
not, under the circumstances which attended their seizure,
"appropriated" by the military authorities engaged in the
suppression of the rebellion, it is difficult to conceive of a
case of an appropriation of property within the meaning of the
acts of 1864 and 1875. The road and its appurtenances hay-

UNITED STATES v. WINCHESTER &c. RAILROAD.

257

Opinion of the Court.

ing been thus seized and appropriated, for military purposes,
during the war, what was done by the military authorities of
the United States is to be regarded as an act of war, and the
claim of the appellee, for the proceeds of the property appropriated, must be deemed a "War Claim" within the meaning
of the act of 1887, and, therefore, expressly excluded from the
jurisdiction of the Court of Claims at the time it was transmitted to that court for adjudication. Jurisdiction could not
attach by reason simply of the claim having been certified to
that court by an Executive Department under section 1063,
as one involving controverted questions of fact and law; for,
ew York, 160 U. S. 598, 615, the
in United State v.
various statutes relating to the jurisdiction of the Court of
Claims were examined, and it was held, upon full consideration, that notwithstanding the passage of the Bowman and
Tucker acts, a claim described in section 1063 of the Revised
Statutes could be transmitted to the Court of Claims for
"final adjudication," provided "such claim be not barred by
limitation, and be one of which, by reason of its subject-matter and character, that court could take judicial cognizance
at the voluntary suit of the claimant."
The appellee insists that its claim is not a "War Claim,"
but is one founded upon contract made after the civil war
ended. But in whatever light the matter be viewed, and even
if it were held that the military authorities of the United
States, after actual hostilities ceased, agreed to return the iron
in question to the appellee, its claim is one "growing out of"
the appropriation of property by the army engaged in the
suppression of the rebellion, and therefore a "War Claim"
within the meaning of the above act of March 3, 1887. It
could not be divested of that character by anything done or
omitted to be done by any officer or Department of the Government. After the suppression of the rebellion the military
authorities had no such relations to property appropriated by
them during the war as enabled them, by contract or otherwise, to turn a claim growing out of such appropriation into a
claim based upon contract, and thereby give to the Court of
Claims a jurisdiction denied to it by Congress. We do not
VOL. CLXI-17

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

mean to say that this claim might not have been allowed by
the proper Executive Department, and paid out of moneys at
its disposal for such purposes. No such question is now presented, and we therefore express no opinion upon it. We adjudge nothing more than that the Court of Claims could not
take judicial cognizance of this claim because it was and is a
"War Claim," that is, one growing out of the appropriation
of property by the army while engaged in the suppression of
the rebellion, and not one arising upon a valid contract, express or implied, made when such appropriation occurred.
These views render it unnecessary to consider any other
question in the case, and require a reversal of the judgment.
The judgment is reversed and the cause remanded with
directions to dismiss the actionfor want ofjurisdiotion i,
the Court of Claims.
MR. JUSTIE SHm s

dissented.

UNITED STATES v. LAWS.
CERTIFICATE FROM

THE

CIRCUIT

COURT

OF

APPEALS

FOR THE

SIXTH CIRCUIT.
No. 248.

Submitted April 28, 1896.-Decided May 18, 1896.

A contract made with an alien in a foreign country to come to this country
as a chemist on a sugar plantation in Louisiana, in pursuance of which
contract such alien does come to thi country and is employed on a
sugar plantation in Louisiana, and his expenses paid by the defendant,
is not such a contract to perform labor or service as is prohibited in the
act of Congress passed February 26, 1885.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Xr. Solicitor General for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Lawrence Maxwell, Jr., for defendant in error.
MRi.

JUSTICE PECKH-A

delivered the opinion of the court.

