UNITED STATES v. REALTY COMPANY.
Opinion of the Court.

UNITED STATES v. REALTY COMPANY.

UNITED STATES v. GAY.
ERROR To

THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THx
EASTERN DISTRICT OF LOUISIANA.

Nos. 870, 869. Argued April 22, 28, 24,.1896. - Decided May 25, 1896.

The appropriations of money by the act of March 2, 1895, c. 189;28 Stat. 910,
933, to be paid to certain manufacturers and producers of sugar who had
complied with the provisions of the act of October 1, 1890, c. 1244, 26
Stat. 567, were within the power of Congress to make, and were constitutional and valid.
It is within the constitutional power of Congress to determine whether
claims upon the public treasury are founded upon moral and honorable
obligations, and upon principles of right and justice; and having decided
such questions in the affirmative, and having appropriated public money
for the payment of such claims, its decision can rarely, if ever, be the
subject of review by the Judicial branch of the Government.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Whitney and MrM. Solicitor
General for plaintiffs in error. .Mr.Assitant Attorney General Dodge was on their brief.
Charles F. .Mander8on, -Mr. T2hornas . Semmes and
Mr. Joseph T. Choate for defendants in error. Mr. Edward
11am was on Mr. Manderson's brief.
.r.

D.
.Mr. James A
MR. JuSTICm

ill filed a brief for defendants in error.

rxHAx delivered

the opinion of the court.

These are writs of error to the Circuit Court of the United
States for the Eastern District of Louisiana. The actions
were brought in that court under the second section of the
act approved March 3, 1887, c. 859, 24: Stat. 505, commonly
known as the Tucker act. Both actions were brought to

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

obtain payment of moneys by reason of the legislation of Congress in regard to sugar bounties. The court below in each
case gave judgment for the plaintiffs therein, and theGovernment by writ of error brings the cases here for review.
The legislation out of which the question arises is as follows: By the act approved October 1, 1890, c. 1244, known
as the tariff act of 1890, 26 Stat. 567, which act is entitled "An
act to reduce the revenue and equalize duties on imports, and
for other purposes," Congress legislated upon the subject of
the tariff, and in that act paragraphs 231, 232, 233 and 235,
'Schedule E, Sugar," (on p. 583,) read as follows:
"231. That on and after July first, eighteen hundred and
ninety-one, and until July first, nineteen hundred and five,
there shall be paid, from any moneys in the Treasury not
otherwise appropriated, under the provisions of section three
thousand six hundred and eighty-nine of the Revised Statutes,
to the producer of sugar, testing not less than ninety degrees
by the polariscope, from beets, sorghum or sugar cane grown
within the United States, or from maple sap produced within
the United States, a bounty of two cents per pound; and upon
such sugar testing less than ninety degrees by the polariscope,
and not less than eighty degrees, a bounty of one and three
fourths cents per pound, under such rules and regulations as
the Commissioner of Internal Revenue, with the approval of
the Secretary of the Treasury, shall prescribe.
" 232. The producer of said sugar to be entitled to said
bounty shall have first filed prior to July first of each year
with the Commissioner of Internal Revenue a notice of the
place of production, with a general description of the machinery
and methods to be employed by him, with an estimate of the
amount of sugar proposed to be produced in the current or next
ensuing year, including the number of maple trees to be tapped,
and an application for a license to so produce, to be accompanied
by a bond in a penalty, and with sureties to be approved by
the Commissioner of Internal Revenue, conditioned that he
will faithfully observe all rules and regulations that shall be
prescribed for such manufacture and production of sugar.
"233. The Commissioner of Internal Revenue, upon receiv-

UNITED STATES v. REALTY COMPANY.
Opinion of the Court.

ing the application and bond hereinbefore provided for, shall
issue to the applicant a license to produce sugar from sorghum,
beets or sugar cane grown within the United States, or from
maple sap produced within the United States at the place and
time with the machinery and by the methods described in
the application; but said license shall not extend beyond one
year from the date thereof."
"235. And for the payment of these bounties the Secretary
of the Treasury is authorized to draw warrants on the Treasurer of the United States for such sums as shall be necessary,
which sums shall be certified to him by the Commissioner of
Internal Revenue, by whom the bounties shall be disbursed,
and no bounty shall be allowed or paid to any person licensed
as aforesaid in any one year upon any quantity of sugar less
than five hundred pounds."
In 1894 Congress passed another act in relation to the tariff,
which act was received by the President on the 15th of
August, and became a law on the 28th of August, 1894, without his approval. Such act is entitled "An act to reduce taxation, to provide revenue for the government, and for other
purposes." c. 349, 28 Stat. 509. Paragraph 162, "Schedule
E, Sugar," p. 521, reads as follows:
"Schedule E. - Sugar. 182. That so much of the act
entitled 'An act to reduce revenue, equalize duties, and for
other purposes,' approved October first, eighteen hundred and
ninety, as provides for and authorizes the issue of licenses to
produce sugar, and for the payment of a bounty to the producers of sugar from beets, sorghum or sugar cane grown in
the United States, or from maple sap produced within the
United States be, and the same is hereby, repealed, and hereafter it shall be unlawful to issue any license to produce sugar
or to pay any bounty for the production of sugar of any kind
under the said act."
By another act of Congress, approved March 2,1895, c. 189,
28 Stat. 910, 933, entitled "An act making appropriations for
sundry civil expenses of the government for the fiscal year
ending June 30, 1896, and for other purposes," Congress
enacted as follows:

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

"Bounty on sugar: That there shall be paid by the Secretary of the Treasury to those producers and manufacturers of
sugar in the United States from maple sap, beets, sorghum or
sugar cane grown or produced within the United States who
complied with the provisions of the bounty law as contained
in Schedule E of the tariff act of October first, eighteen
hundred and nirnety, a bounty of two cents a pound on all
sugars testing not less than ninety degrees by the. polariscope,
and one and three fourths cents per pound on all sugars testing less than ninety and not less than eighty degrees by the
polariscope, manufactured and produced by them previous to
the twenty-eighth day of August, eighteen hundred and ninetyfour, and upon which no bounty has previously been paid;
-and for this purpose the sum of two hundred and thirty-eight
thousand two hundred and eighty-nine dollars and eight cents is
hereby appropriated, or so much thereof as may be necessary.
"That there shall be paid to those producers who complied
with the provisions of the bounty law as contained in Schedule
E of the tariff act of October first, eighteen hundred and iinety,
by filing the notice of application for license and bond therein
required, prior to July first, eighteen hundred and ninetyfour, and who would have been entitled to receive a license
as provided for in said act, a bounty of eight tenths of a cent
per pound on the sugars actually manufactured and produced
in the United States testing not less than eighty degrees by
the polariscope, from beets, sorghum or sugar cane grown
or produced within the United States during that part of
the fiscal year ending June thirtieth, eighteen hundred and
ninety-five, comprised in the period commencing August
twenty-eighth, eighteen hundred and ninety-four, and ending
June thirtieth, eighteen hundred and ninety-five, both days
inclusive; and for this purpose the sum of five million dollars,
or so much thereof as may be necessary, is hereby appropriated; provided, that no bounty shall be paid to any person
engaged in refining sugars which have been imported into the
United States, or produced in the United States upon which
the bounty herein provided has already been paid or applied
for.

UNITED STATES v. REALTY COMPANY.
Opinion of the Court.

"The bounty herein authorized to be paid shall be paid
upon the presentation of such proofs of manufacture and production as shall be required in each case by the Commissioner
of Internal Revenue, with the approval of the Secretary of
the Treasury, and under such rules and regulations as shall be
prescribed by the Commissioner of Internal Revenue, with the
approval of the Secretary of the Treasury.
"And for the payment of such bounty the Secretary of the
Treasury is authorized to draw warrants on the Treasurer of
the United States for such sums as shall be necessary, which
sums shall be certified to him by the Commissioner of Internal
Revenue, by whom the bounty shall be disbursed, and no
bounty shall be allowed or paid to any person as aforesaid
upon any quantity of sugar less than five hundred pounds."
Under the provisions of the appropriation made in the last
above named act of Congress, the defendant in error in each
of the above cases sues for the money claimed by it and him
for the manufacture of sugar under the circumstances stated
in the petition in each case. They are test cases. The Realty
Company is one of a class coming under the terms of the appropriation to those who had manufactured a certain class of
sugar previous to the 28th day of August, 1894, and upon
which no bounty had previously been paid. The allegation
in the petition of the company showed that it had between
the first day of July, 1893, and the 30th day of June, 1894,
under the provisions of the act of 1890, produced and manufactured at the places stated the amount of sugar mentioned
in the petition, and that it was entitled to receive from the
defendant the bounty thereon mentioned in the act, which it
was alleged amounted to the sum of $5576.97. The repeal of
the bounty clause in the act of 1890 by the act which took
effect on the 28th of August, 1894, and which prohibited the
payment of bounties thereafter, prevented the company from
obtaining the money on the warrant which had been issued
to it prior to that date. There were comparatively few persons coming under the class in which the company stood, and
the appropriation made for the payment of that class was a
little less than $250,000.

OCTOBER TERM-,

1895.

Opinion of the Court.

The plaintiff in the other suit, Mr. Gay, is one of a class
coming under the second portion of the act of 1895, he being
among those who complied with the provisions of the bounty
act as contained in Schedule E of the act of October 1, 1890,
by duly filing notice of application for license and bond as
therein required, and who would have been entitled to receive a
license as provided for in said act, and a bounty of eight tenths
of a cent per pound on the sugars actually manufactured by
him according to the provisions of such act during that part
of the fiscal year ending June thirtieth, 1895, comprised in the
period commencing August 28, 1894, and ending June 30,
1895, both dates inclusive. The amount of bounty claimed
by Mr. Gay is between eight and nine thousand dollars, and
the persons forming this class are quite numerous, and the
appropriation for them amounted to the sum of $5,000,000, or
so much thereof as might be necessary to make the payments
provided for in the act.
Counsel for the government admit that the plaintiff in each
case has complied with all the terms and conditions of the act
in order to entitle each to recover the moneys demanded in
these suits under the act of 1895, provided that act is constitutional and valid. If it be, the judgment in each case must be
affirmed.
The proper disbursing officer of the Treasury refused to pay
the warrants drawn upon the Treasury in these cases upon the
sole ground that the act is unconstitutional. He has been
fortified in his opinion and action by the views expressed in
the Court of Appeals of the District of Columbia, in the case
of United States ex tel. Miles Planting & Manufacturing Co.
v. Carlisle, reported in 5 D. C. App. 138. That company,
which was a Louisiana corporation engaged in the sugar business, claimed that the repealing portion of the act of August
28, 1894, was not effective so as to cut off the rights of persons who had prior to its passage procured licenses for the
fiscal year beginning July 1, 1894, and had expended money
thereunder. The company therefore applied to the Supreme
Court of the District of Columbia for a writ of mandamus
against the Secretary of the Treasury and the Commissioner

UNITED STATES v. REALTY COM[PANY.
Opinion of the Court.

of Internal Revenue to compel action on their part under the
act of 1890. The application was resisted by the government
upon several grounds, among others, that the bounty legislation
of 1890 was unconstitutional. The motion was denied upon
all the grounds set up by the government, including that of
unconstitutionality. Mr. Justice Shepard delivered the opinion of the court and Mr. Justice Morris concurred with him
upon all points. Mr. Chief Justice Alvey expressed no opinion
upon the constitutional question because the conclusion that
Congress had power to repeal the provision giving the bounty
for sugar rendered it unnecessary to pass upon the unconstitutionality of the original bounty clause.
It was by reason of this opinion upon the validity of the
bounty legislation of 1890 that the Comptroller of the Treasury reexamined the rulings which had been previously made
in approving bounty claims theretofore presented; and he
had concluded to and did refer another case involving this
question, then before him, to the Court of Claims for its
decision in accordance with the provisions of section 1063 of
the Revised Statutes, but before that case reached the Court
of Claims the present cases had been commenced and decided
in Louisiana.
The question whether the bounty provisions of the act of
1890 were constitutional was raised in the case of Field v.
Clark, 143 U. S. 649. The contention in that case was that
such provisions were unconstitutional, and that therefore the
whole tariff act of 1890 was void. This court declined to
decide the question as to the constitutionality of those provisions because, as the court held, the rest of the act would
be valid even if the bounty provision were void. The question has been again presented to us in this case, and been
very ably argued by counsel both for the government and
the defendants in error. The question is one of the very
gravest importance. It should not be decided without very
mature investigation and deliberation, and only when absolutely necessary to the determination of the rights of the
parties.
In the view we take of these cases the rights of the parties
VOL. cLxnI-28

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

may be passed upon and the actions finally decided without
our entering upon a discussion as to the validity of the bounty
legislation contained in the act of 1890, and without deciding
that question. For the purpose of the discussion of this case
we think it unnecessary to decide whether or not such legislation is beyond the power of Congress. We are of the opinion that in either case the appropriations of money in the act
of 1895 to be paid to certain manufacturers and producers of
sugar who had complied with the act of 1890 were within
the power of Congress to make, and were constitutional and
valid.
Without referring to the first three findings of the court
below in regard to the general policy of this government in
relation to the tariff, and confining our attention to those
facts which are matters of history and to the acts of Congress
already referred to, and to the facts set forth in the petitions
in the two cases and to the admissions of the parties made for
the purposes of the trial of these cases, we may briefly describe the condition of affairs existing at the time of the passage of the appropriation act of 1895.
The production and manufacture of sugar in the Southern
and some portions of the Western States from sugar cane and
from sorghum and beets had become at the time of the passage of the act of 1890 an industry in which large numbers
of the citizens of this country were engaged, and its prosecution involved the use of a very large amount of capital. The
tariff theretofore had been very high upon imported sugar,
and the native industry had thereby been encouraged, fostered
and greatly increased. The subject of how to treat this industry was under discussion in Congress while the tariff act
of 1890 was before it, and it finally decided the question by
enacting the bounty clause of that act. Before that time
the revenue on imported sugar had amounted to nearly
$60,000,000 in one year. To put sugar on the free list would
reduce the revenue that amount, but at the same time it
might, as was urged in Congress, ruin the persons engaged
in the industry in this country. So the tariff on sugar was
reduced while at the same time a bounty was placed upon

UNITED STATES v. REALTY COMPANY.
Opinion of the Court.

its production here of an amount which it was thought would
equal the protection the industry had theretofore enjoyed
under the tariff. The act was approved by the President
and no question of its validity was made by any officer of
the government having any duties to perform under it. The
bounty provision was by the terms of the act to remain in
force for fifteen years. The citizens who were engaged in
the manufacture of sugar prepared to comply with the provisions of the law under which the bounty was to be payable.
Under that act and during its existence large sums of
money were paid to sugar manufacturers as a bounty, and
all manufacturers continued to manufacture in reliance upon
its. provisions. During these years no officer of the government questioned the validity of the act, and the bounties
earned under it were paid without objection or any hint that
objection would thereafter be taken while the law was in
force. This condition continued for about three years. In
the winter, spring and summer of 1894 it is matter of history
that the discussion of the tariff act, which finally became a
law on the 28th of August of that year, was continually
going on in Congress and through the public prints of the
country. Before the passage of the act it was, of course,
wholly uncertain as to what its provisions would be, including
the question of the bounty for the manufacture of sugar. INo
man could predict it. No one could have stated whether the
bounty would be taken off entirely or materially reduced, or
left as it stood by the act of 1890. The whole question of
tariff legislation at that time was full of uncertainty. In the
meantime the season was approaching when the manufacturer
of sugar must decide what to do. He was confronted with
the fact that the act of 1890 was still in existence, and under
its provisions he must, if he meant to avail himself of the
bounties which might be payable under the act, make his
application for and obtain a license prior to July 1 of that
year. In his application for a license he was compelled to
give a general description of the machinery and the methods
to be employed by him, with an estimate of the amount of
sugar proposed to be produced in the current year, and his

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

application would have to be accompanied by a bond, with
sureties to be approved by the Commissioner of Internal
Revenue, conditioned that he wouhl faithfully observe the
rules and regulations that would be prescribed for the manufacture and production of sugar. At the same time, if he
made application and obtained his license and commenced
the manufacture of sugar under the provisions of the act of
1890, he could not be certain that the Congress might not
strike out altogether the provision for the payment of any
bounty and he be left in such a condition that he could
neither manufacture with profit nor abstain from manufacturing without loss. All this by no fault of his; doing his
very best, exerting his every energy, sleeplessly vigilant at
all points, it was yet impossible for him to decide what to do
in this state of uncertainty, or to even guess which would
be the road least liable to lead to great pecuniary loss, if not
to ruin. Already embarked in the business and in this
state of uncertainty, the manufacturer finally concludes to go
on as if the act were to remain in existence, feeling probably a
firm reliance that the government would not treat its citizens
unjustly or unfairly by a sudden repeal of the bounty law
without making some temporary provision of another nature
by which justice would be done him. He applied for a license
and commenced his preparations, as the then existing act of
1890 provided that he might do. Making his arrangements
for the prospective year and preparing for the manufacture
of sugar during that time, the manufacturer is, subsequently,
confronted by the act of Congress taking effect August 28,
1894, totally repealing the provisions of the act of 1890 upon
the subject of bounties and prohibiting from that time the
payment thereof. This was the position of the plaintiff, Mr.
Gay, and of large numbers of other people. The Realty
Company occupied a still more unfortunate position. That
company had manufactured sugar between the 1st of July,
1893, and the 1st of July, 189-1, during the whole of which
period the act of 1890 was in full force, and after July 1,
1894, the company obtained the warrants, duly certified and
authenticated by the local government officers in Louisiana,

UNITED STATES v. REALTY COMPANY.
Opinion of the Court.

for the payment of its claim to bounty, but before actual
payment from the Treasury of the United States could be
obtained the act of 1894 came into existence, with its provision directing that no further payment of bounty should
thereafter be made. Of course, under the circumstances, as
set forth in regard to the plaintiffs in the above suits, there
can be and is no question made as to the entire good faith of
all parties, and the question presented to this court is one of
constitutional power simply.
This condition of affairs confronted the Congress which
passed the appropriation in question. It is now argued by
counsel for the government that Congress had no valid power
to recognize these claims against the United States made by
the sugar manufacturers, because the provision in regard to
the payment of bounties contained in the act of 1890 is unconstitutional
Upon this assumption it is said that no claim, legal, moral,
equitable or honorable can be created in favor of the sugar
manufacturer and against the government, and that where
there is neither legal, moral nor honorable obligation to pay,
Congress has no power to appropriate money.
In our opinion it is not correct to say that no moral, equitable or honorable obligation can attach in favor of persons
situated as were the defendants in error here, when the act
of 1895 was passed. We think obligations of that nature may
arise out of such circumstances. We regard the question of
the unconstitutionality of the bounty provisions of the act
of 1890 as entirely immaterial to the discussion here. These
parties did not at that time (when manufacturing under its
provisions) know that the act was unconstitutional; they
could not be regarded as failing to do their whole duty because they proceeded with the manufacture of sugar in reliance upon the bounty promised by the government, under an
act recognized by the officers of the government as valid, and
-which they were at all times executing. But it is said that
if the act be unconstitutional the law imputes to these parties
at all times a knowledge of its invalidity, and that it is not
rendered valid by acquiescence in its provisions for any length

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

of time even by officers of the government holding the highest places therein and who are charged with its execution and
believe in its validity. Being unconstitutional, there never
was a moment, it is stated, when there was any valid act,
and, therefore, no equities can arise in their favor because
of any acts done by them upon the faith of the act, which
they were bound to know was wholly void. This reasoning
does not exactly fit the case. It is not a question whether
any strictly legal rights can arise out of an unconstitutional
act. It is a question whether equitable considerations can
attach to a claim which, among other grounds, is based upon
an act that was supposed by all the officers of the government
to be valid and which was repealed only when the whole taxing act of 1890 was subjected to a careful and comprehensive
revision. There are occasions when the presumption that
every man knows the law must be enforced for the safety
of society itself. An individual on trial for a violation of the
criminal law will not be heard to allege as a defence that he
did not know the act of which he was guilty was criminal.
But in such a case as this, knowledge of the invalidity of the
law in advance of any authoritative declaration to that effect
will not be imputed to those who are acting under its provisions, and receiving the benefits provided by its terms.
These parties cannot be held bound, upon the question of
equitable or moral consideration, to know what no one else
actually knew, and what no one could know prior to the determination, by some judicial tribunal, that the law was unconstitutional. Although it should finally turn out that the
law is invalid, and is so pronounced, yet during all the time
of its operation, as has been stated, all the officers of the government united in treating it as a valid act. No court had
determined to the contrary. It was a question at least admitting of argument. Under such circumstances can it be said
that the plaintiffs in these suits and persons situated like them
were bound to know that this law was and would be pronounced
unconstitutional, and that no rights could be acquired under
it, and that they would not be justified in proceeding to manufacture sugar according to its provisions? Could no equities

UNITED STATES v. REALTY COIPANY.
Opinion of the Court.

be built up in their behalf (which the government might subsequently recognize) founded upon the belief that the act was
valid, and upon the action of the officers of the government
under it, because it was, or subsequently might be pronounced
to be, unconstitutional?
We are of the opinion that the parties, situated as were
the plaintiffs in these actions, acquired claims upon the government of an equitable, moral or honorary nature. Could
Congress legally recognize and pay them although the act
of 1890 as to its bounty provisions might be unconstitutional?
It is true that in general an unconstitutional act of Congress
is the same as if there were no act. That is regarding it in
its purely legal aspect. Being in violation of the Constitution, that instrument must govern, and no one can base any
legal claim as arising out of such an act. That is a very
different principle, however, from that which we think governs it, this case. The persons for whose benefit the appropriation contained in the act of 1895 was made are not, in the
view we take, asserting the existence of a legal and valid debt
against the United States which is at the same time based
upon an unconstitutional act of Congress. No such inconsistent and illogical position is taken. They are asserting that
by reason of the occurrences which took place before the appropriation, among which was the passage of the act of 1890,
they were so placed before Congress, as to authorize that
body to recognize the equities of the situation, and to pay
their claims which, while they were not of a legal character,
were nevertheless of so meritorious and equitable a nature as
to authorize the nation through its Congress to appropriate
money to pay them.
It is also true that it does not appear from the terms of the
act of appropriation that the parties for whose benefit it is
made had commenced the business of sugar manufacturing
or enlarged their previous manufacture of sugar by reason
of the bounties provided under the act of 1890. That was
not necessary. There was enough in the circumstances which
are before this court and which have been already in part
detailed to make it a question for the decision of Congress,

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

whether upon the whole the persons so situated were equitably entitled to its consideration and to the appropriation
asked for. If Congress possessed the power in any event to
recognize equities of such a nature, we think it had enough
in the case before it to uphold a favorable decision thereof.
It is unnecessary to hold here that Congress has power to
appropriate the public money in the treasury to any purpose
whatever which it may choose to say is in payment of a debt
or for purposes of the general welfare. A decision of that
question may be postponed until it arises.
There was enough in the case as presented to Congress upon
which to base the assertion that there was a moral and honorable claim upon the public treasury which that body had the
constitutional right to recognize and pay.
Under the provisions of the Constitution, (article 1, section
8,) Congress has power to lay and collect taxes, etc., "to pay
the debts" of the United States. Having power to raise
money for that purpose, it of course follows that it has power
when the money is raised to appropriate it to the same object.
What are the debts of the United States within the meaning
of this constitutional provision? It is conceded and indeed it
cannot be questioned that the debts are not limited to those
which are evidenced by some written obligation or to those
which are otherwise of a strictly legal character. The term
"debts" includes those debts or claims which rest upon a
merely equitable or honorary obligation, and which would
not be recoverable in a court of law if existing against an
individual. The nation, speaking broadly, owes a "debt"
to an individual when his claim grows out of general principles of right and justice; when, in other words, it is based
upon considerations of a moral or merely honorary nature,
such as are binding on the conscience or the honor of an individual, although the debt could obtain no recognition in a
court of law. The power of Congress extends at least as far
as the recognition and payment of claims against the government which are thus founded. To no other branch of the
government than Congress could any application be successfully made on the part of the owners of such claims or debts

UNITED STATES v. REALTY COMPANY.
Opinion of the Cou-t.

for the payment thereof. Their recognition depends solely
upon Congress, and whether it will recognize claims thus
founded must be left to the discretion of that body. Payments to individuals, not of right or of a merely legal claim,
but payments in the nature of a gratuity, yet having some
feature of moral obligation to support them, have been
made by the government by virtue of acts of Congress, appropriating the public money, ever since its foundation. Some
of the acts were based upon considerations of pure charity.
A long list of acts directing payments of the above general
character is appended to the brief of one of the counsel for
the defendants in error. The acts are referred to not for the
purpose of asserting their validity in all cases, but as evidence
of what has been the practice of Congress since the adoption
of the Constitution. See, also, among other cases in this
court, Emerson v. Hall, 13 Pet. 409; United States v. Price,
116 U. S. 43; Williams v. -Heard,140 U. S. 529. The last
cited case arose under an act of Congress in relation to the
Alabama claims.
The claims presented on the part of the United States against
Great Britain, arising out of the depredations committed by
the Confederate vessel Alabama and other designated Confederate vessels, which had sailed from British ports, upon the
commerce and navy of the United States during the war of
the rebellion, were by the treaty of Washington, concluded
M ay 8, 1871, between the United States and Great Britain,
submitted to a tribunal of arbitration called to meet at Geneva,
in Switzerland. Certain indirect claims or war risks, as they
were sometimes called, were included by this government in
its claims against Great Britain and were presented to the
tribunal above named. Great Britain objected to the submission of those claims on the ground that their consideration
was not included in the purview of the treaty. This matter
was the subject of some difference of opinion among the representatives of the respective governments, and they were not
able to agree upon the subject, when the arbitrators, witbout
expressing any opinion upon the point of difference as to the
interpretation of the treaty, stated that these indirect or war

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

claims did not constitute upon principles of international law
applicable to such cases a foundation for an award of compensation or computation of damages between nations, and
should, upon such principles, be wholly excluded from all consideration of the tribunal in making its award, even if there
were no disagreement between the two governments as to the
competency of the tribunal to decide them. This declaration
was accepted by the President, and those claims were not insisted upon before the tribunal and were not taken into consideration in making the award. Thus it is seen that there
were no legal claims of the holders of those war risks upon
the government for the payment to them of any sum whatever. The award made by the tribunal, which was paid to
the United States by Great Britain, was held to have been
made to the United States as a nation, United States v. Wyezd,
127 U. S. 51, and the fund itself came into the treasury as any
public moneys of the country.
By the act of June 5, 1882, c. 195, 22 Stat. 98, the Court of
Commissioners of Alabama Claims was reestablished, and the
duty was imposed upon it to receive and examine claims
which might be presented, putting them into classes, the
second of which was "for the payment of premiums for war
risks, whether paid to corporations, agents or individuals, for
the sailing of any Confederate cruiser." The Heards were
owners of claims for war risks, and Congress finally appropriated money to pay a portion of them. Congress thus
recognized as proper to be paid a class of claims which had
not been taken into consideration by the Geneva tribunal, but
which had been decided by that tribunal to have no basis in
international law. It is a case, therefore, of the recognition
by Congress of what it regarded as an equitable claim on the
part of the owners of these war risks to be paid some portion
of their claims, and the validity of the appropriation was
never questioned.
Among the latest examples of payments that are not of
right or of any legal claim, but which are in the nature of a
gratuity depending upon equitable considerations, are the
cases just decided by this court of Blagge v. BalcA, Brooks v.

UNITED STATES v. REALTY COMPANY.
Opinion of the Court.

Codrman, and Foot v. WoMMe'e Board of .Missions, reported
as one case in 162 U. S. 439. The claims in those cases are
what have been known as the French spoliation claims, being
based upon depredations of French cruisers upon our cominerce prior to July, 1801. An appropriation for their paymeat was made by Congress in 1891 upon the conditions and
to the class of persons named in the act. Questions arose as
to the proper interpretation of the act and as to the character
of the payments provided for therein. This court held the
payments were purposely brought by Congress within the
category of payments that are not of right, but which are in
the nature of a gratuity and as an act of grace, though
founded upon a prior moral or honorable obligation to pay to
some one who might be said in some way to represent the
original sufferers. No question of the power of Congress to
make such appropriation was raised by any one.
The power to provide for claims upon the State founded in
equity and justice has also been recognized as existing in the
state governments. For example, in G-izford v. Chenango
County, 13 N. Y. 143, it was held by the New York Court of
Appeals that the legislature was not confined in its appropriation of public moneys to sums to be raised by taxation in
favor of individuals to cases in which legal demands existed
against the State, but that it could recognize claims founded
in equity and justice in the largest sense of these terms or in
gratitude or in charity.
Of course, the difference between the powers of the state
legislatures and that of the Congress of the United States
is not lost sight of, but it is believed that in relation to the
power to recognize and to pay obligations resting only upon
moral considerations or upon the general principles of right
and justice, the Federal Congress stands upon a level with the
state legislature.
In truth, the general proposition that Congress can direct
the payment of debts which have only a strong moral and
honorable obligation for their support is not, as we understand
it, denied by the learned counsel for the United States; but it
is claimed that in these cases no foundation whatever is laid

OCTOBER TERM[, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

for its application, because the claim arises out of the unconstitutional provisions of the act giving bounties in 1890.

It is

impossible, it is said, to build even an equity out of an act
of Congress which is utterly void; that as the original act
offering and paying bounties was void, it cannot become legal
to pay them because of any alleged equities of those who
would suffer from their sudden discontinuance as set forth in
these cases. For the reasons already given we do not think,
under the circumstances surrounding these cases, that the
validity of the act of 1895 can be questioned successfully.
In regard to the question whether the facts existing in any
given case bring it within the description of that class of
claims which Congress can and ought to recognize as founded
upon equitable and moral considerations and grounded upon
principles of right and justice, we think that generally such
question must in its nature be one for Congress to decide for
itself. Its decision recognizing such a claim and appropriating
money for its payment can rarely, if ever, be the subject of
review by the judicial branch of the government. Upon the
general principle, therefore, that the government of the United
States, through Congress, has the right to pay the debts of
the United States, and that the claims in these cases are of a
nature which that body might rightfully decide to constitute
a debt payable by the United States upon considerations of
justice and honor, we think the act of Congress making

appropriations for the payment of such claims was valid without reference to the question of the validity or invalidity of
the original act providing for the payment of bounties to
manufacturers of sugar, as contained in the tariff act of 1890.
The judgments in these cases are right, irrespective of how
that question might be decided, or of any conclusion that
might be reached upon other questions suggested at the bar.
The judgments are, therefore,

.Affilrned.

ME. JusTioE WHITE did not sit in nor take any part in the

decision of these cases.

