OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Syllabus.

practice of the land department during a certain period, based
upon the idea that the right of entry given by the statute of
additional lands was entirely personal, and not assignable or
transferable. We cannot give to this practice in the land
office the effect claimed for it by the plaintiff in error. The
practical construction given to an act of Congress, fairly susceptible of different constructions, by one of the Executive
Departments of the government, is always entitled to the
highest respect, and in doubtful cases should be followed by
the courts, especially when important interests have grown up
under the practice adopted. Bate 1?efrigerating Co. v. Sulzberger, 157 U. S. 1, 34; United States v. Healey, 160 U. S. 136,

141. But this court has often said that it will not permit the
practice of an Executive Department to defeat the obvious
purpose of a statute. In the present case it is our duty to
adjudge that the right given by the statute in question to
enter "additional" lands was assignable and transferable;
consequently the instrument of writing given by Mary J.
Robertson to Boggs was not forbidden by any act of Congress.
It.results that the judgment below must be and is
Afflgmed.

HIIBORN v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 267.

Submitted May 1, 1896. -Decided

May 18,1696.

Fees allowed by the court to the district attorney for his services In defending habeas corpus cases, brought to release from the custody of masters
of vessels Chinese emigrants, whom the collector of the port had ordered
detained, should be accounted for by him in the returns made by him to
the government, of the fees and emoluments of his office.
It would require a strong case to show that services, for which the district
attorney is entitled to charge the government a fee, are not also services
for the earnings of which he should make return to the government in
his emolument account.

HILBORN v. UNITED STATES.
Counsel for Appellant.

Tmis was a petition by the district attorney for the District
of California for certain fees for services rendered by direction
of the Attorney General, in connection with various habeas
corpus cases of Chinamen desiring to enter this country; the
total amount of disallowances in this connection being in
the vicinity of $7000. Defendants filed a counterclaim for
moneys claimed to be erroneously and illegally allowed and
paid by the accounting officers of the Treasury Department
in the sum of $930, in excess of the fees and compensation
prescribed by law.
In this connection the Court of Claims made a finding of
facts to the effect that the claimant appeared and resisted certain proceedings in cases prosecuted in the proper court of the
United States, wherein writs of habeas corpu had been issued
on behalf of subjects of the Emperor of China, to masters of
certain vessels arriving at the port of San Francisco, by whom
persons were detained by order of the collector of said port,
acting under color of the authority of the act of Congress of
May 6, 1882, c. 126, 22 Stat. 58, and of July 5, 1884, c. 220, 23
Stat. 115. Judgment was rendered without a jury in each case.
For these services, the judge, upon approving claimant's accounts under the act of February 22, 1875, taxed and allowed
him an assimilated fee of $10 in each case, certified it to be a
just and reasonable compensation, and that it had been assimilated to such fee as is prescribed by section 824 of the Revised
Statutes for similar services in cases in which the United States
are a party, and where judgment is rendered without a jury.
The case involved several other points, not questioned upon
this appeal, and resulted in a judgment in favor of the petitioner for $594.60 and a dismissal of the counterclaim. From
this judgment petitioner appealed, assigning as error that the
Court of Claims erred in holding that the assimilated fees,
earned by him in resisting the habeas corpus proceedings, were
to be included in his emolument return or counted in making
up his maximum compensation, and that the judgment of the
court should have been for the sum of $8230.
.Mr. Charles Eing and -Mr. William B. King for appellant.

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

-Mr.Assistant Attorney General Dodge for appellees.
Miz. JUSTICE BRowN, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.

The only question presented by this appeal is whether the
assimilated fee of ten dollars allowed by the court to the district attorney for his services in defending a large number of
habeas corpus cases, brought to release from the custody of
masters of vessels certain Chinese emigrants, whom the collector of the port had ordered detained, should be accounted
for by him in the returns made by him to the government, of
the fees and emoluments of his office. No showing was made
of any special employment of the district attorney in these cases,
either by the court or by the Attorney General, or any other
officer; and apparently his appearance for the United States,
and his defence of these proceedings, was construed as a proper
part of his duties as district attorney, and was voluntary.
The question is whether these services were so far a part of
the official duties of the district attorney as to require him to
make return to the government of the fees earned therefor as
emoluments of his office, within the meaning of Rev. Stat. 833,
which directs the district attorney to make a return on the
first days of January and July of each year of all fees and
emoluments of his office, and of all the necessary expenses.
By sec. 834 "the preceding section shall not apply to fees and
compensation allowed to district attorneys by section eight hundred and twenty-five," (a percentage upon moneys collected
in suits under the revenue laws,) "and eight hundred and
twenty-seven," (compensation certified by the court and approved by the Secretary of the Treasury in actions against
officers of the revenue). "All other fees, charges and emoluments to which a district attorney or a marshal may be
entitled, by reason of the discharge of the duties of his office,
as now or hereafter prescribed by law, or in any case in
which the United States will be bound by the judgment
rendered therein, whether prescribed by statute or allowed
by a court, or any judge thereof, shall be included in the

HILBORN v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

semi-annual return required of said officers by the preceding
section."
In determining whether the fees in these cases were earned
by reason of the discharge of the duties of his office, we are
referred to section 7-71, in which it is enacted that "it shall
be the duty of every district attorney to prosecute, in his district, all delinquents for crimes and offences cognizable under
.the authority of the United States, and all civil actions in which
the United States are concerned, and, unless otherwise instructed by the Secretary of the Treasury, to appear in behalf
of the defendants in all suits and proceedings pending in his
district against collectors, or other officers of the revenue, for
any act done by them or for the recovery of any money exacted by or paid to such officers, and by them paid into the
Treasury."
It is argued by the petitioner in this connection that these
fees were earned not in the prosecution, but in the defence
of civil actions in which the United States were concerned,
and as, at the time when this statute was originally enacted,
the United States could not be sued in the Circuit or District
Courts, it was never contemplated that the district attorney
would be called upon to defend the United States, except, of
course, in suits against officers of the revenue; and hence that
the law only imposed on him the duty of prosecuting suits in
which the United States were concerned as a party plaintiff.
This precise question, however, was considered and passed
upon by this court in Smith v. United States, 158 U. S. 346,
in which we held that the fact that the government was interested as defendant in some of the cases in which fees were
claimed was immaterial, and that the words "to prosecute
all civil actions" were not to be interpreted in any technical
sense, but should be construed as covering any case in which
district attorneys are employed to prosecute the interests of
the government, whether such interests be the subject of
attack or defence. We only desire to add in this connection
that it would require a strong case to show that services, for
which the district attorney is entitled to charge the government a fee, are not also services for the earnings of which he

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Counsel for Parties.

should make return to the government in his emolument
account. In section 834: there are two express exceptions to
this rule, and the implication from these is that no others
should be permitted. We do not mean to say that there may
not possibly be others, but we think it should appear by a
clear inference that they were not intended to be included.
The government can only be called upon to pay for services
earned by the district attorney in his official capacity, and for
the fees earned in the performance of these services he should
account to the government in his fee and emolument returns,
unless there be some express exception taking them out of the
general rule.
The judgment of the court below is, therefore,
Affirmed.
MR. JUST=c

FIEii took no part in the consideration of this

case.

STEAMER COQUITLAM v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIFICATE

FROM

THE

CIRCUIT COURT

OF

APPEALS

FOR THE

NINTH CIRCUIT.
No. 804. Submitted April 20, 1896. -Decided

May 18, 1896.

The District Court of Alaska is to be regarded as the Supreme Court of
that Territory, within the meaning of the 15th section of the act of
March 3, 1891, c. 517, 26 Stat. 826, and of the order of this court assigning Alaska to the Ninth Circuit; and the decree of the District Court
of Alaska is subject to review by the Circuit Court of Appeals of that
circuit.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
-Mr. Calderon Carlislefor appellant. .Mr,. fTames Hamilton
Lewis, .ir. J. A. Stratton, Xr. L. C. Gilman, Mr. E. C.
Hjughes, Xr. H, G. Struve, Xr. JT. B. Alten and ir. .Maurice
ZMfficken were on briefs for claimants.
XIr. SoZicitor General for appellees.

