OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Syllabus.

deemed the evidence competent. Moreover, in the charge,
the judge instructed the jury that they had a right to take
into consideration the facts that had gone to them for the purpose of showing who Kemp was and where he came from, and
as there was no other evidence on this topic than that of
le Flore, it is plain that the judge submitted to the jury the
evidence of le Flore, as to the statements, as competent. To
this portion of the charge the defendant excepted before the
jury retired and in their presence. It is, indeed, now contended that the exception was too indefinite; but we think
that the exception was sufficient to enable the trial court to
perceive the particular matter objected to.
We think, therefore, that the court erred in instructing the
jury that they had. a right to find that the deceased was not
a member of the Choctaw Nation from the mere fact that he
was a negro, and also in admitting evidence of the statements
of the deceased and in instructing the jury that such statements were competent evidence as to his citizenship.
The judgment i8 revereed, and the ca8e remanded with in
8tructn8 to 8et a8ue tverdict
te
and grant a new trial.

BROWN v. WYGANT AND LEEDS.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
Ho. 209. Submitted April 2, S96.-Decided May 25,1896.
R. obtained a judgment against B. on the law side of the Supreme Court of
the District of Columbia. Shortly after he assigned the judgment to
S. W, who subsequently became bankrupt, and as such surrendered all
his property, Including said judgment. G. was duly made his assignee.
S. W. died and G. W. was made his executrix. The death of S. W. being
suggested on the record, a writ of scire facias was issued to revive the
judgment, and on return of nihil a second writ was Issued on which
a like return was made. When these proceedings came to the knowledge of B. he filed a bill to set them aside. A demurrer being sustained
on the ground that the assignee was not a party the assignee was summoned In; and, upon his death, his successor was made a party on his

BROWN v. WYGANT AND LEEDS.
Statement of the Case.
own motion. After issues were made by the pleadings, the suit proceeded to a final decree in the Supreme Court of the District, from which
an appeal was taken to the Court of Appeals. The latter court reversed
the judgment of the court below. On appeal to this court it is Held,
(1) That the proceedings to revive the judgment were regular;
(2) That as the assignee was a party to the proceedings, with his official
rights protected, the judgment debtor could not set up that it was
not competent for G. W. to originate the proceedings;
(3) That no substantial reason was shown why B. should be relieved

from the judgment.

Ow June 22, 1887, Joseph M. Brown, a citizen of the United
States, residing in the District of Columbia, filed in the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia a bill in equity against
Grace Wygant, executrix of Stephen I. Wygant, deceased, a
resident of the State of New Jersey, seeking to enjoin the
collection of a judgment of the Supreme Court of the District
of Columbia in favor of the said Grace Wygant, executrix,
against the said Joseph M. Brown, dated March 3, 1886.
The bill alleged that on the 9th day of February, 1874, one
Thomas L. Raymond obtained a judgment against the complainant Brown, on the law side of the Supreme Court of the
District of Columbia, for the sum of $5000; that on May 14,
1874, said Raymond assigned said judgment upon the records of the court to Stephen I. Wygant, the testator of said
Grace Wygant; that on February 23, 1878, the said Stephen
I. Wygant was adjudged a bankrupt by the District Court
of the United States for the Southern District of New York,
and on that day duly surrendered all his property, including
said judgment for $5000 ; that on March. 20, 1878, one Henry
T. Godet was appointed assignee in bankruptcy; that said
judgment for $5000 was in terms included in the schedule
of assets filed by Stephen I. Wygant; that claims aggregating
more than $12,000 were proven in said bankruptcy proceedings; that the said judgment for $5000 was the principal
asset, and that the aggregate value of the assets was much
less than the claims; that the estate of said bankrupt had
never been settled, and that the said judgment for $5000 still
belonged to Henry T. Godet, as assignee; that the defendant,
Grace Wygant, had full knowledge of the bankruptcy pro.

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Statement of the Case.

ceedings, and relying upon complainant's ignorance thereof
and for the purpose of harassing him, on January 12, 1886,
applied for and procured letters testamentary from the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia on the estate of
Stephen I. Wygant, then deceased; that said Grace Wygant,
after receiving such letters testamentary, and on February 1,
1886, caused the clerk of said Supreme Court of the District
of Columbia to enter upon the docket of said court a suggestion of the death of Stephen I. Wygant, and to issue a writ
of scirefaeias to revive said judgment, and upon the return
by the marshal of the District, of "1ni h il," the said Grace
Vygant, on the 4th day of February, 1886, caused an alias
writ of scirefacts to be issued, which writ was, on the same
day, returned by the marshal endorsed " n ihil ;" that the said
Grace Wygant obtained, upon the issuance and return of such
writs of scirefacias,a ".Rat" from the justice holding said
Circuit Court of the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia on the 3d day of March, 1886, for the purpose of reviving
said judgment; that the complainant had no knowledge of
such proceedings in the said special terms of said Supreme
Court of the 'District of Columbia for probate and circuit
court business until a long time after the rendition of said
"fiat;" that as soon as he received notice of said proceedings
he filed a motion to set them aside and for the vacating of the
"fiat," but that the justice holding such Circuit Court overruled said motion, reserving to appellant his rights to proceed
in equity for relief; that after the rendition of the "fiat"
aforesaid, Grace Wygant, as such executrix, brought an action
for the enforcement of such judgment against the complainant in the Supreme Court of the county of New York on
December 28, 18S5; and thereupon the complainant prayed
for both a temporary and final injunction against Grace Wygant, as such executrix, and for general relief.
A demurrer was sustained to the bill on the ground that
the assignee in bankruptcy was not made a party, but leave
was given to amend by making the assignee a party. On
January 10, 1888, the complainant amended by adding the
name of Henry T. Godet, assignee in bankruptcy of Stephen

BROWN v. WYGANT AND LEEDS.
Statement of the Case.

1. Wygant, deceased, as an additional defendant, and by filing
as an exhibit the assignment conveying to Godet, assignee,
the entire estate of the said bankrupt, executed March 3,
1878, by the register in bankruptcy. After a general demurrer to the bill as thus amended had been overruled, Grace
Wygant, executrix, filed an answer, and issue was joined,
June 26, 1888, by replication. On February 5, 1888, an injunction yendente lite was allowed as prayed in the bill. On
September 11, 1888, on motion of the solicitor of the defendant,
the death of Godet, assignee, was entered of record. On September 29, 1890, Henry Leeds, as successor to Godet, was, on
his own petition, admitted to become a party defendant, and
on November 4, 1890, Leeds, as assignee, filed his separate
answer, substantially admitting the allegations of the amended
bill, to which complainant filed a replication. On [November
10, 1890, leave was given defendant Leeds to file a cross-bill,
which he did, alleging that he, as assignee, was entitled to
the judgment, and praying that it might be decreed to be an
asset of the bankrupt's estate and of full force and vigor
against the complainant, and that the defendant, Grace
Wygant, should be decreed to assign to him such judgment
and her apparent rights thereto.
On November 25, 1890, the complainant filed an answer to
the cross-bill. In this answer he denied that the Supreme
Court of the District of Columbia had jurisdiction to issue
the letters testamentary to the defendant, Grace Wygant;
denied that the "flat" of the Circuit Court of the Supreme
Court of the District of Columbia was pronounced by lawful
authority, and denied that the judgment in controversy was
still in force - pleaded the statute of limitations. He also
averred that Godet, the original assignee, had actual notice
of the pendency of this suit, but had refused and declined to
become a Party thereto.
On the 14th day of January, 1891, Grace Wygant, as executrix, filed an answer to the cross-bill, denying that Leeds was
invested with title to the judgment as assignee, and likewise
averring that since the filing of the original bill she had become the lawful assignee of all the claims of the creditors

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.

622

Opinion of the Court.

against the bankrupt's estate except one owned by the city
of New York.
On February 14, 1891, the Supreme Court of the District of
Columbia, at special term, filed a decree dismissing the crossbill and granting a final injunction against Grace Wygaut,
enjoining her as executrix from further prosecuting the judgment obtained by her against the complainant in respect to
the said judgment for $5000 in the Supreme Court of the
county of New York.
From this decree Grace Wygaut, executrix, and Henry
.Leeds, assignee, appealed to the Supreme Court of the District
of Columbia at general term, and that court, on April 4, 1892,
reversed the decree of the special term, dismissed the bill of
complaint of Joseph M. Brown, adjudged that the judgment
in controversy was the property of Henry Leeds as assignee
in bankruptcy of Stephen I. Wygant, deceased, as an asset of
said estate, and decreed that said Grace Wygaut, executrix,
should -convey and assign to said Henry Leeds, assignee, all
her apparent rights in said judgment.
On April 16, 1892, the complainant filed a petition asking
the court to vacate its said decree and to remand the cause to
the special term, in order that evidence might be taken, for
reasons set forth in said petition. On November 21, 1892,
this motion was refused, and on December 20, 1892, an appeal
was taken to this court.
.Mr. Robert Christy for appellant.
Xfr. A. A. Birney for Leeds, appellee.
MF

JusTIcE

SHm"S delivered the opinion of the court.

In dismissing the appellant's bill of complaint and sustaining the cross-bills the Supreme Court of the District evidently
proceeded on the view that it was competent for the Circuit
Court to render judgment of "llgat exeoutio" on the return of
"nihil" to two successive writs of 8oirefacias on the original
judgment. That a return of two nihils is equivalent to a
service has been a rule of prac.tice of long standing in England
and in most of the States of this Union.

BROWN v. WYGANT AND LEEDS.
Opinion of the Court.

The writ of scirefacia8 quare executio non is defined to be
a writ issued out of the court wherein a judgment has been
entered, reciting such judgment, suggesting the grounds requisite to entitle plaintiff to execution, and requiring the
defendant to make known the reason, if any there be, why
such execution should not issue. Bingham on Executions
and Judgments, 123; Freeman bn Executions, vol. 1, ยง 81.
"On the return day of the writ the sheriff either returns
'WCire feed,' that is, that he has warned the party, or ' nihi4'
that is, that the party has nothing by which he can warn him.
When the sheriff returns 'nihit' the party must sue out a
second or alias writ of 8cire faia8,and if the sheriff returns
'nihil' also to the second writ, and the defendant do not
appear, there shall be judgment against him. [In other
words, two returns of 'nihil' are equivalent to one return of
'cire feci.']" Bingham on Executions and Judgments, 124;
.Andrew8 v. Earper, 8 Mod. 227; Chambers v. Carson, 2
Whart. 9; Choate v. The People, 19 Illinois, 62; .Xearn8 v.
The State, 3 Blackford, 334; Barrow v. Bailey, 5 Florida, 9;
Cumming v. Eden, 1 Cowen, 70.
And as the Supreme Court of the District
of Columbia has,
in the present case, recognized the regularity of the proceedings to revive the judgment against the appellant, no reason
is seen why this court should take a different view. Owens v.
. nry, 161 U. S. 642, is distinguishable from this case, because there the defendant had ceased to be a resident of Pennsylvania, where the original judgment had been entered,
years before the writ of 8cire facia was sued out, and had
become a citizen of Louisiana, in which State the statute of
limitations had run.
It is urged on behalf of the appellant that as Wygant, the
original owner of the judgment, had been declared a bankrupt, and as the judgment, as an asset of his estate, had become the property of the assignee in bankruptcy, it was not
competent for Grace Wygant, as his executrix, to revive the
judgment by proceeding in the Supreme Court of the District
of Columbia. A sufficient answer to this is that Brown, as
the judgment debtor, was not injured, and could not have

OCTOBER TERMI, 1895.
Opinion of the Court

successfully set up that matter by plea to the 8cire facias.
Thatcher v. Rockwell, 105 U. S. 461, was a case where, after

suit brought, the plaintiff was adjudged to be a bankrupt, and
assignees were appointed, and it was held that the bankruptcy
of the plaintiff could not be set up by the defendants to bar
its further prosecution in his name, this court saying: "It is
no defence to the debt that the creditor has become a bankrupt; and if an assignee, after notice, permits a pending suit
to proceed in the name of the bankrupt for its recovery, he
is bound by any judgment that may be rendered. This is a
sufficient protection for the debtor."
In the present case, Leeds, the assignee in bankruptcy;
ratified the action of the executrix, by making himself a
party to the proceedings and procuring a decree compelling
her to transfer the judgment to him as an asset of the bankrupt's estate. By that feature of the decree Brown is protected from any danger of being compelled to pay twice.
If, then, the original judgment was regularly obtained, was
duly revived by lawful proceedings, and is now made payable,
by the decree of the court below, to the party legally entitled
to receive the same, no reason is presented by this record why
this court should disturb that decree. Equity refuses to relieve from a judgment unless substantial merits are shown.
It is true that the appellant undertook to show that he had
a meritorious defence to the suit as originally brought, by
certain allegations made in a petition to the Supreme Court
of the District of Columbia filed after the final decree had
been entered against him. We are not obliged to notice
allegations made at such a late period in the proceedings not made, indeed, till the controversy had been finally closed.
However, we have read this petition, and it is sufficient to
say that it contains nothing which, even if true and if made
to appear during the trial of the present case, would have
justified any change in the decree.
The decree of the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia is

