OCTOBER TERIM, 1895.
Statement of the Case.

manifest from the record that, but for the remittitur, the
judge before whom the trial was had would have ordered a
new trial.
As this court now holds the remittitur to have been
unauthorized and invalid, the proper order, without considering other questions argued at the bar, will be
Judgment reversed, and case remanded to the Supreme Court
of the Territory,with directions to cause the verdict to be
set aside and a new trial had.

TALTON v. M1AYES.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
WESTERN DISTRICT OF ARKANSAS.
No. 227.

Argued April 16, 17,1896. -Decided

May 18, 1896.

The crime of murder committed by one Cherokee Indian upon the person of
another within the jurisdiction of the Cherokee nation is not an offence
against the United States, but an offence against the local laws of the
Cherokee nation; and the statutes of the United States which provide
for an Indictment by a grand jury, and the number of persons who shall
constitute such a body, have no application.
The Fifth Amendment to the Constitution does not apply to local legislation
of the Cherokee nation, so as to require all prosecutions for offences
committed against the laws of that nation to be initiated by a grand jury
in accordance with the provisions of that amendment.
The question whether a statute of the Cherokee nation which was not
repugnant to the Constitution of the United States or in conflict with
any treaty or law of the United States had been repealed by another
statute of that nation, and the determination of what was the existing
law of the Cherokee nation as to the constitution of the grand jury, is
solely a matter within the jurisdiction of the courts of that nation, and
the decision of such a question in itself necessarily involves no infraction
of the Constitution of the United States.

ON February 15, 1S93, a petition for habeas corpus was filed
in the District Court of the United States for the Western
District of Arkansas, setting forth that the plaintiff therein
(who is the appellant here) was, on the 31st day of December,

TALTON v. MAYES.

377

Statement of the Case.

1892, convicted, on a charge of murder, in a special Supreme
Court of the Cherokee nation, Cooweeskoowee District, and sentenced to be hanged on February 28, 1893, and that petitioner
was then held, awaiting the time of execution, in the national
jail at Tahlequah, Indian Territory, by Wash. Mvayes, high sheriff
of the Cherokee nation. It was further alleged that the petitioner was deprived of his liberty without due process of law;
that he was in confinement in contravention to the Constitution and laws of the United States, and also in violation of the
constitution and laws of the Cherokee nation. These contentions rested upon the averment that the indictment under
which he had been tried and convicted was void because returned by a body consisting of five grand jurors, which was
not only an insufficient number to constitute a grand jury
under the Constitution and laws of the United States, but also
was wholly inadequate to compose such jury under the laws
of the Cherokee nation, which, it was alleged, provided for a
grand jury of thirteen, of which number a majority was necessary to find an indictment. The petitioner, moreover, averred
that he had not been tried by a fair and impartial jury, and
that many gross irregularities and errors to his prejudice had
been committed on the trial. The district judge issued the
writ, which was duly served upon the high sheriff, who produced the body of the petitioner and made return setting up
the conviction and sentence as justifying the detention of the
prisoner. Incorporated in the return was a transcript of the
proceedings in the Cherokee court had upon the indictment
and trial of the petitioner. In the copy of the indictment
contained in the original transcript, filed in this court, it was
recited that the indictment was found by the grand jury on
the 1st day of December, 1892, while the offence therein
stated was alleged to have been committed "on or about the
3d day of December, 1892." The evidence contained in the
transcript, however, showed that the offence was committed
on November 3, 1892, and in a supplement to the transcript,
filed in this court, it appears that said date was given in the
indictment. No motion or demurrer or other attack upon the
sufficiency of the indictment was made upon the trial in

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

the Cherokee court based upon the ground that the offence
was stated in the indictment to have been committed on a
date subsequent to the finding of the indictment, nor is there
any specification of error of that character contained in the
petition for the allowance of the writ of habeas corpus. After
hearing, the district judge discharged the writ and remanded
the petitioner to the custody of the sheriff, and from this judgment the appeal now under consideration was allowed.
-Mr. Leonidas D. -arrellfor appellant. .Mr. _ljak 1V.
Brookslbre and Air. Benjamir T. .Duval were on his brief.
-Mr. 1R. C. Garlandfor appellee. Mr. A. 1. Garland and
Air. William -1. Craven were on his brief.
Miz. JusTice. WniTm, after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
Prior to May, 1892, a law enacted by the legislature of the
Cherokee nation made it the duty of the judges of the Circuit
and District Courts of the nation, fourteen days before the
commencement of the first regular term of said courts, to
furnish to the sheriff a list of the names of five persons, who
should be summoned by the sheriff to act as grand jurors for
that district during the year. The first regular term of the
courts named commenced on the second Monday in May. On
November 28, 1892, a law was enacted providing for the summoning and empanelling of a grand jury of thirteen, the names
of the persons to compose such jury to be furnished to the
sheriff, as under the previous law, fourteen days before the
commencement of the regular term of the Circuit and District
Courts. There was no express repeal of the provisions of the
prior law. Under the terms of the act of INovember 28, 1892,
a grand jury could not have been empanelled before the term
beginning on the second Monday of May, 1893. The indictment in question was returned in December, 1892, by a grand
jury consisting of five persons, which grand jury had been
empanelled under the prior law, to serve during the year 1892.

TALTON v. L YES.
Opinion of the Court.

The right of the appellant to the relief which he seeks must
exist, if at all, by virtue of section 753 of the Revised Statutes
of the United States, which is as follows:
"The writ of habeas corpus shall in no case extend to a
prisoner in jail, unless where he is in custody under or by
color of the authority of the United States, or is committed
for trial before some court thereof; or is in custody for an act
done or omitted in pursuance of a law of the United States, or
of an order, process or decree of a court or judge thereof;
or is in custody in violation of the Constitution or of a law or
treaty of the United States; or, being a subject or citizen of a
foreign State, and domiciled therein, is in custody for an act
done or omitted under any alleged right, title, authority,
privilege, protection or exemption claimed under the commission, or order, or sanction of any foreign State, or under
color thereof, the validity and effect whereof depend upon the
law of nations; or unless it is necessary to bring the prisoner
into court to testify."
Appellant and the person he was charged with having
murdered were both Cherokee Indians, and the crime was
committed within the Cherokee territory.
To bring himself within the statute, the appellant asserts,
1st, that the grand jury, consisting only of five persons, was
not a grand jury within the contemplation of the Fifth
Amendment to the Constitution, which it is asserted is operative upon the Cherokee nation in the exercise of its legislative authority as to purely local matters; 2d, that the
indictment by a grand jury thus constituted was not due process of law within the intendment of the Fourteenth Amendment; 3d, even if the law of the Cherokee nation providing
for a grand jury of five was valid under the Constitution of
the United States such law had been repealed, and was not
therefore in existence at the time the indictment was found.
A decision as to the merits of these contentions involves a consideration of the relation of the Cherokee nation to the United
States, and of the operation of the constitutional provisions
relied on upon the purely local legislation of that nation.
By treaties and statutes of the United States the right of

OCTOBER TERAI, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

the Cherokee nation to exist as an autonomous body, subject
always to the paramount authority of the United States, has
been recognized. And from this fact there has consequently
been conceded to exist in that nation power to make laws
defining offences and providing for the trial and punishment
of those who violate them when the offences are committed
by one member of the tribe against another one of its members, within the territory of the nation.
Thus, by the fifth article of the treaty of 1835, 7 Stat. 478,
481, it is provided:
"The United States hereby covenant and agree that the
lands ceded to the Cherokee nation in the foregoing article
shall, in no future time without their consent, be included
within the territorial limits or jurisdiction of any State or
Territory. But they shall secure to the Cherokee nation the
right by their national councils to make and carry into effect
all such laws as they may deem necessary for the government
and protection of the persons and property within their own
country belonging to their people or such persons as have
connected themselves with them: Provided always that they
shall not be inconsistent with the Constitution of the United
States and such acts of Congress as have been or may be
passed regulating trade and intercourse with the Indians; and
also, that they shall not be considered as extending to such
citizens and army of the United States as may travel or reside in the Indian country by permission according to the
laws and regulations established by the government of the
same."
This guarantee of self government was reaffirmed in the
treaty of 1868, 14 Stat. 799, 803, the thirteenth article of
which reads as follows:
"Article XIII. The Cherokees also agree that a court or
courts may be established by the United States in said territory, with such jurisdiction and organized in such manner
as may be prescribed by law: Provided, That the judicial
tribunals of the nation shall be allowed to retain exclusive
jurisdiction in all civil and criminal cases arising within their
country in which members of the nation, by nativity or

TALTON v. MAYES.
Opiniou of the Court.

adoption, shall be the only parties, or where the cause of action shall arise in the Cherokee nation, except as otherwise
provided in this treaty."
So, also, in "An act to provide a temporary government for
the Territory of Oklahoma, to enlarge the jurisdiction of the
United States court in the Indian Territory, and for other
purposes," approved May 2, 1890, c. 182, 26 Stat. 81, it was
provided, in section 30, as follows:
"That the judicial tribunals of the Indian nations shall retain exclusive jurisdiction in all civil and criminal cases arising
in the country in which members of the nation by nativity or
by adoption shall be the only parties; and as to all such cases
the laws of the State of Arkansas extended over and put in
force in said Indian Territory by this act shall not apply."
And section 31 of the last mentioned act closes with the
following paragraph:
"The Constitution of the United States and all general laws
of the United States which prohibit crimes and misdemeanors
in any place within the sole and exclusive jurisdiction of the
United States except in the District of Columbia, and all laws
relating to national banking associations, shall have the same
force and effect in the Indian Territory as elsewhere in the
United States ; but nothing in this act shall be so construed
as to deprive any of the courts of the civilized nations of exclusive jurisdiction over all cases arising wherein members of
said nations, whether by treaty, blood or adoption, are the
sole parties, nor so as to interfere with the right and powers
of said civilized nations to punish said members for violation
of the statutes and laws enacted by their national councils
where such laws are not contrary to the treaties and laws of
the United States."
The crime of murder committed by one Cherokee Indian
upon the person of another within the jurisdiction of the
Cherokee nation is, therefore, clearly not an offence against
the United States, but an offence against the local laws of
the Cherokee nation. Necessarily, the statutes of the United
States which provide for an indictment by a grand jury, and
the number of persons who shall constitute such a body, have

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

no application, for such statutes relate only, if not otherwise
specially provided, to grand juries empanelled for the courts
of and under the laws of the United States.
The question, therefore, is, does the Fifth Amendment to
the Constitution apply to the local legislation of the Cherokee
nation so as to require all prosecutions for offences committed
against the laws of that nation to be initiated by a grand jury
organized in accordance with the provisions of that amendment. The solution of this question involves an inquiry as
to the nature and origin of the power of local government
exercised by the Cherokee nation and recognized to exist in
it by the treaties and statutes above referred to. Since the
case of Barron v. Baltimore, 7 Pet. 243, it has been settled
that the Fifth Amendment to the Constitution of the United
States is a limitation only upon the powers of the General
Government, that is, that the amendment operates solely on
the Constitution itself by qualifying the powers of the National Government which the Constitution called into being.
To quote the language of Chief Justice Marshall, this amendment is limitative of the "powers granted in the instrument
itself and not of distinct governments framed by different
persons and for different purposes. If these propositions be
correct, the Fifth Amendment must be understood as restraining the power of the General Government, not as applicable to
the States." The cases in this court which have sanctioned
this view are too well recognized to render it necessary to
do more than merely refer to them. Fom v. Ohio, 5 How.
410, 424; WVitkerm v. Buckley, 20 How. 84; Twitchell v. The
Commonwealth, 7 Wall. 321; Edwardsv. Elliott, 21 Wall. 532,
557; Pearsonv. YewdaZ1, 95 U. S. 294, 296; Davis v. Texas,
139 U. S.651.
The case in this regard therefore depends upon whether the
powers of local government exercised by the .Cherokee nation
are Federal powers created by and springing from the Constitution of the United States, and hence controlled by the Fifth
Amendment to that Constitution, or whether they are local
powers not created by the Constitution, although subject to
its general provisions and the paramount authority of Con-

TALTON v. 3KAYES.
Opinion of the Court.

gress. The repeated adjudications of this court have long
since answered the former question in the negative. In
GCherokee NYation v. Georgia, 5 Pet. 1, which involved the right
of the Cherokee nation to maintain an original bill in this
court as a foreign State, which was ruled adversely to that
right, speaking through Mr. Chief Justice Marshall, this court
said (p. 16):
"Is the Cherokee nation a foreign State in the sense in
which that term is used in the Constitution?
"The counsel for the plaintiffs have maintained the affirmative of this proposition with great earnestness and ability.
So much of the argument as was intended to prove the character of the Cherokees as a State, as a distinct political society, separated from others, capable of managing its own
affairs and governing itself, has, in the opinion of a majority
of the judges, been completely successful. They have been
uniformly treated as a State from the settlement of our country. The numerous treaties made with them by the United
States recognize them as a people capable of maintaining the
relations of peace and war, of being responsible in their political character for any violation of their engagements or for
any aggression committed on the citizens of the United States
by any individual of their community. Laws have been enacted in the spirit of these treaties. The acts of our government plainly recognize the Cherokee nation as a State, and
the courts are bound by those acts."
It cannot be doubted, as said in Worcester v. The State of
Georgia, 6 Pet. 515, 559, that prior to the formation of the
Constitution treaties were made with the Cherokee tribes by
which their autonomous existence was recognized. And in
that case Chief Justice Marshall also said (p. 559):
"The Indian nations had always been considered as distinct,
independent political communities, retaining their original natural rights. . . . The very term 'nation,' so generally applied to them, means a 'people distinct from others.' The
Constitution, by declaring treaties already made, as well as
those to be made, to be the supreme law of the land, has
adopted and sanctioned the previous treaties with the Ind-

28,1

,

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

ian nations, and consequently admits their rank among those
powers who are capable of making treaties."
In reviewing the whole subject in Hagama v. UnitedStates,
118 U. S. 375, this court said (p. 381):
"With the Indians themselves these relations are equally
difficult to define. They were, and always have been, regarded as having a semi-independent position when they
preserved their tribal relations; not as States, not as nations,
not as possessed of the full attributes of sovereignty, but as
a separate people with the power of regulating their internal
and social relations, and thus far not brought under the laws
of the Union, or of the State within whose limits they resided."
True it is that in many adjudications of this court the fact
has been fully recognized, that although possessed of these
attributes of local self government, when exercising their
tribal functions, all such rights are subject to the supreme
legislative authority of the United States. Cherokee .fationv.
Jansa8Railway Co., 135 U. S.64.1, where the cases are fully
reviewed. But the existence of the right in Congress to regulate the manner in which the local powers of the Cherokee
nation shall be exercised does not render such local powers
Federal powers arising from and created by the Constitution
of the United States. It follows that as the powers of local
self government enjoyed by the Cherokee nation existed prior
to the Constitution, they are not operated upon by the Fifth
Amendment, which, as we have said, had for its sole object
to control the powers conferred by the Constitution on the
National Government. The fact that the Indian tribes are
subject to the dominant authority of Congress, and that
their powers of local self government are also operated upon
and restrained by the general provisions of the Constitution
of the United States, completely answers the argument of
inconvenience which wa's pressed in the discussion at bar.
The claim that the finding of an indictment by a grand jury
of less than thirteen violates the due process clause of the
Fourteenth Amendment is conclusively answered by Rurtado
v. California,110 U. S.516, and .Mcffuty v. California,149

MEYER v. RICHARDS.
Syllabus.

Y. S. 645. The question whether a statute of the Cherokee
nation which was not repugnant to the Constitution of the
United States or in conflict with any treaty or law of the
United States had been repealed by another statute of that
nation, and the determination of what was the existing law
of the Cherokee nation as to the constitution of the grand
jury, were solely matters within the jurisdiction of the courts
of that nation, and the decision of such a question in itself
necessarily involves no infraction of the Constitution of the
United States. Such has been the decision of this court with
reference to similar contentions arising upon an indictment
and conviction in a state court. In re Duncan, 139 U. S.
449. The ruling in that case is equally applicable to the contentions in this particular arising from the record before us.
The counsel for the appellant has very properly abandoned
any claim to relief because of alleged errors occurring subsequent to the finding of the indictment. As to the point raised
in reference to the date of the commission of the offence as
stated in the indictnient, the record as corrected shows that
the error in question did not exist. It is, therefore, unnecessary to notice the argument based upon the assumption that
the indictment charged the offence to have been committed
subsequent to the finding of the true bill.
The judgment is
Afflne.
ME. JusTIC HAELA" dissented.

MEYER v. RICHARDS.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
EASTERN DISTRICT OF LOUISIAN?A.
No. 89. Submitted October 25, 1694. -Decided

May 25, 1896.

A., an alien, sold to B. in New Orleans thirteen bonds of the State of Louislana, delivered them to him, and received from him payment for them in
full. Both parties contemplated the purchase and delivery of valid and
VOL. CLXiii-25

