OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Syllabus.

other cases, civil and criminal, each party shall be entitled to
three peremptory challenges; and in all cases where there are
several defendants or several plaintiffs, the parties on each
side shall be deemed a single party for the purposes of all
challenges under this section. All challenges, whether to the
array or panel, or to individual jurors for cause or favor,
shall be tried by the court without the aid of triers."
Counsel concedes that at common law "robbery" was a
felony and that the word " rob" in the statute was used in its
common law sense, and, therefore, admits that the errors assigned in respect of the action of the court in overruling these
challenges are well taken. We concur in this view.
Other rulings of the court are questioned in the brief of
plaintiff in error, but it is quite improbable that they will
occur on another trial and we need not pass upon them.
fludgment reversed and cause remanded with a direction to
set aside the verdict and grant a new trial.

ILLINOIS CENTRAL RAILROAD COMPANY v.
ILLINOIS.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF ILLINOIS.
Wo. 217.

Argued April 14,15,1896.-Decided May 18, 1596.

The act of Congress of September 20, 1850, c.61, granted a right of way,
and sections of the public lands, to the State of Illinois, and to States
south of the Ohio River, to aid in the construction of a railroad connecting the waters of the Great Lakes with those of the Gulf of Mexico, and
over which the malls of the United States should be carried. The State
of Illinois accepted the act, and incorporated the Illinois Central lailroad Company, for the purpose of constructing a railroad with a southern terminus described as "a point at the city of Cairo." The company
accordingly constructed and maintained Its railroad to a station in Cairo,
very near the junction of the Ohio and Mississippi Rivers; but afterwards, in accordance with statutes of the United States and of the State
of Illinois, connected its railroad with a railroad bridge built across the
Ohio River opposite a part of Cairo farther from the mouth of that

ILLINOIS CENTRAL RAILROAD CO. v. ILLINOIS.

143

Statement of the Case.
river; and put on a fast mail train carrying interstate passengers and thiUnited States mails from Chicago to New Orleans, which ran through the
city of Cairo, but did not go to the station in that city, and could not
have done so without leaving the through route at a point three and a half
miles from the station and coming back to the same point; but the company made adequate accommodation by other trains for interstate passengers to and from Cairo. Cairo was a county seat. Held, that a statute of
Illinois, requiring railroad companies to stop their trains at county seats
long enough to receive and let off passengers with safety, and construed
by the Supreme Court of the State to require the fast mail train of this
company to be run to and stopped at the station in Cairo, was, to that
extent, an unconstitutional hindrance and obstruction of interstate commerce, and of the passage of the mails of the United States.

THIs was a petition for a writ of mandamus, based upon the
Revised Statutes of Illinois of 1889, c. 114, § 88, which is as
follows:
"Every railroad corporation shall cause its passenger trains
to stop upon its arrival at each station, advertised by such
corporation as a place for receiving and discharging passengeri upon and from such trains, a sufficient length of time to
receive and let off such passengers with safety: Provided, all
regular passenger trains shall stop a sufficient length of time,
at the railroad station of county seats, to receive and let off
passengers with safety."
The petition was filed April 17, 1891, in the circuit court
for Alexander county in the State of Illinois, by the county
attorney in behalf of the State, alleging that the Illinois Central Railroad Company ran its south-bound fast mail train
through the city of Cairo, two miles north of its station in
that city, and over a bridge across the Ohio River connecting
its road with other roads south of that river, without stopping
at its station in Cairo; and praying for a writ of mandamus
to compel it to cause all its passenger trains, coining into
Cairo, to be brought down to that station, and there stopped
a sufficient length of time to receive and let off passengers
with safety.
The defendant contended that the statute did not require
its fast mail train to be run to and stopped at its station in
Cairo; and that the statute was contrary to the Constitution

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Statement of the Case.

of the United States, as interfering with interstate commerce,
and with the carrying of the -United States mails.
By the act of Congress of September 20, 1850, c. 61, entitled "An act granting the right of way and making a grant
of land to the States of Illinois, Mississippi and Alabama, in
aid of the construction of a railroad from Chicago to Mobile,"
the right of way through the public lands, with the right to
take earth, stones and timber necessary for the construction
of the road, was "granted to the State of Illinois for the
construction of a railroad from the southern terminus of the
Illinois and Michigan Canal to a point at or near the junction
of the Ohio and Mississippi Rivers, with a branch of the same
to Chicago on Lake Michigan, and another via the town of
Galena in said State to Dubuque in the State of Iowa;" and
a copy of the survey of the road and branches, made under
direction of the legislature, was required to be forwarded to
the proper land office, and to the general land office in the
city of Washington. By % 2-4, alternate sections of land
on each side of the road were granted to the State of Illiiiois,
"subject to the disposal of the legislature thereof, for the
purposes aforesaid, and no other; and the said railroad and
branches shall be and remain a public highway, for the use
of the government of the United States, free from toll or
other charge upon the transportation of any property or
troops of the United States." By § 6, "the United States
mail shall at all times be transported on the said railroad,
under the direction of the Post-Office Department, at such
price as the Congress may by law direct." And by § 7, "in
order to aid in the continuation of said Central Railroad from
the mouth of the Ohio River to the city of Mobile," similar
grants of "rights, privileges and liabilities," and of lands,
were made "to the States of Alabama and Mississippi respectively, for the purpose of aiding in the construction of a railroad from said city of Mobile to a point near the mouth of
the Ohio River." 9 Stat. 466.
The legislature of Illinois, by the statute of February 10,1851,
incorporated the Illinois Central Railroad Company, and empowered it "to survey, locate, construct, complete, alter, main-

ILLINOIS CENTRAL RAILROAD CO. v. ILLINOIS.

145

Statement of the Case.

tain and operate a railroad, with one or more tracks, from the
southern terminus of the Illinois and Michigan Canal to a
point at the city of Cairo, with a branch of the same to the
city of Chicago on Lake Michigan, and also a branch via the
city of Galena to a point on the Mississippi River opposite
the town of Dubuque in the State of Iowa;" and by § 15, for
that purpose only, ceded and granted to that corporation the
right of way and lands granted to the State by the act of
Congress of September 20, 1850; and required "the main
trunk thereof, or central line, to run from the city of Cairo
to the southern termination of the Illinois and Mfichigan
Canal," "and nowhere departing more than seventeen miles
from a straight line between" those two points; and required
the corporation to mortgage said right of way and lands to
the State of Illinois to secure the application of the proceeds
of those lands "to the constructing, completing, equipping
and furnishing said road and branches, in accordance with the
terms of this act, and said act of Congress;" and by § 19,
declared "said road and branches to be free for the use of the
United States, and to be employed by the Post-Office Department, as provided in said act of Congress." Illinois Private
Laws of 1851, pp. 61, 66, 68, 71. And by § 3 of the statute
of Illinois of February 1-7, 1851, that act of Congress was
expressly "accepted, and the conditions expressed in said act
are hereby agreed to, and made obligatory upon the State of
Illinois." Illinois General Laws of 1851, p. 192.
By the statute of Illinois of February 2, 1855, "all railroad
companies incorporated or organized under, or which may be
incorporated or organized under, the authority of the laws
of this State, shall have power to make such contracts and
arrangements with each other, and with railroad corporations
of other States, for leasing or running their roads, or any part
thereof; and also to contract for and hold, in fee simple or
otherwise, lands or buildings in this or other States for depot
purposes; and also to purchase and hold such personal property, as shall be necessary and convenient for carrying into
effect the object of this act;" and "shall have the right of
connecting with each other, and with the railroads of other
VOL. CLXM-10

OCTOBER TERVE, 1895.
Statement of the Case.

States, on such terms as shall be mutually agreed upon by the
companies interested in such connection." And by the statute
of Illinois of February 25, 1867, "railroads terminating or to
terminate at any point on any line of continuous railroad thoroughfare, where there now is or shall be a railroad bridge for
crossing of passengers and freight in cars over the same as part
of such thoroughfare, shall make convenient connections of
such railroads, by rail, with the rail of such bridge; and such
bridge shall permit and cause such connections of the rail of
the same with the rail of such railroads, so that by reason of
such railroads and bridge there shall be uninterrupted communication over such railroads and bridge as public thoroughfares; but by such connections no corporate rights shall be
impaired." 2 Starr & Curtis's Statutes of Illinois, pp. 1921,
1922.
By the act of Congress of June 15, 1866, c. 124, entitled
"An act to facilitate commercial, postal and military communication among the several States," and having this preamble, "W hereas the Constitution of the United States confers
upon Congress, in express terms, the power to regulate commerce among the several States, to establish post-roads, and
to raise and support armies: Therefore," it is enacted "that
every railroad company in the United States, whose road is
operated by steam, its successors and assigns, be and is hereby
authorized to carry upon and over its road, boats, bridges
and ferries, all passengers, troops, government supplies, mails,
freight and property on their way from any State to another
State, and to receive compensation therefor, and to connect
with roads of other States so as to form continuous lines for
the transportation of the same to the place of its destination:
Provided, that this act shall not affect any stipulation between
the government of the United States and any railroad company for transportation or fares without compensation, nor
impair or change the conditions imposed by the terms of any
act granting lands to any such company to aid in the construction of its road; nor shall it be construed to authorize any
railroad company to build any new road, or connection with
any other road, without authority from the State in which

ILLINOIS CENTRAL RAILROAD CO. v. ILLINOIS.

147

Statement of the Case.

said railroad or connection may be proposed;" and "that
Congress may at any time alter, amend or repeal this act."
14 Stat. 66.
By the act of Congress of December 17, 1872, c. 4, amended
by the supplementary act of February 14, 1883, c. 44, "any
person or corporation, having lawful authority therefor, may
hereafter erect bridges across the Ohio River, for railroad or
other uses, upon compliance with the provisions and requirements of this act," among -which are that they shall be built
of a certain height above low water mark, and at places and
according to plans approved by the Secretary of War; and
any bridge constructed under and according to this act is
declared to be a lawful structure, to be recognized and known
as a post route; and for the transmission over which of the
mails, the troops and the munitions of war of the United
States, no higher charge is to be made than the rate per mile
over the railroads or public highways leading to it; and across
which the United States are to have the right of way for
postal telegraph purposes. 17 Stat. 398; 22 Stat. 414.
The city of Cairo is situated upon the point of land at the
junction of the Mississippi and Ohio Rivers, and is surrounded
by high levees to protect it from the river floods; and since
1859 has been a county seat. In 1855, the defendant completed the location and building of its road, and laid and since
maintained its track to the bank of the Ohio River, then taking a sharp turn westward, and passing, in the city of Cairo,
for the distance of two miles along the Ohio Levee embankment, to a place, less than half a mile from the junction of
the waters of the two rivers, and at the intersection of Second
and Ohio Levee streets, where its only passenger station in
Cairo was established; and until a few months before the filing of the petition ran all its passenger trains to and from that
station, and made it the southern terminus of its railroad.
By the statute of Kentucky of March 29, 1886, c. 446, the
Chicago, St. Louis and New Orleans Railroad Company and
the Illinois Central Railroad Company were authorized
"jointly, or either of them separately, to build, erect, construct, and forever maintain, use and operate a railroad bridge

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Statement of the Case.

over and across the Ohio River from the Kentucky shore, in
Ballard County, opposite the city of Cairo, to any point in the
city of Cairo, Illinois," conformably to the conditions and
limitations of the acts of Congress of 1872 and 1883, above
cited.
Pursuant to that statute, the Chicago, St. Louis and New
Orleans Railroad Company, into which various railroad corporations had been consolidated by statutes of the States of
Louisiana, Mississippi, Tennessee and Kentucky, and whose
line extended from New Orleans to the Ohio River, built a
bridge across the Ohio River to low water mark on the Illinois
side, to which the jurisdiction of the State of Kentucky extended. Indiana v. -entucky, 136 U. S. 479. The north
end of this bridge was at that part of Cairo about two miles
north of the defendant's station in that city; and the peculiar
conformation of the land and water made it impracticable to
put it nearer to the junction of the two rivers. The height
at which the bridge had to be built, in order to avoid obstructing navigation, required the approaches on both banks to be
graded. The approach on the Illinois side was built by the
defendant, upon its own land, at the grade of 35 feet to a mile,
and beginning a mile and a half off, at Bridge Junction, beyond the corporate limits of Cairo.
After this bridge was built, and the defendant's road was
thereby connected with the Chicago, St. Louis and New
Orleans Railroad, the defendant put on a daily fast mail train,
to run from Chicago to New Orleans, carrying passengers,
as well as the United States mail, not going to or stopping at
its station in Cairo, but connecting, at a point some nine miles
out on the main line, with a short train from that station.
Trains passing over the through route from Chicago to New
Orleans, and stopping at Cairo, are obliged to leave the main
line at Bridge Junction, and to run down three and a half
miles to the Cairo station, and back to the same point on the
main line. Six regular passenger trains were so run daily,
giving adequate accommodations for passengers to or from
Cairo.
The defendant offered to prove that the schedule of run-

ILLINOIS CENTRAL RAILROAD CO. v. ILLINOIS.

149

Opinion of the Court.

ning time of the fast mail train had been fixed by the PostOffice Department of the United States, and could not be
changed by the defendant. The court excluded the evidence,
"for the reason that it is not competent for the defendant to
enter into the contract with the government of the United
States, whereby it renders itself incapable of complying with
the laws of Illinois;" and allowed an exception to this ruling.
The court granted a writ of mandamus, commanding the
defendant to cause its south-bound fast mail train, and all its
other passenger trains coming into Cairo, to be run"or brought
down to its passenger station at the intersection of Ohio Levee
and Second streets, and there to -be stopped a sufficient length
of time to receive and let off passengers with safety.
The defendant appealed to the Supreme Court of the State,
which affirmed the judgment; and held that the statute of
Illinois concerning the stopping of trains obliged the defendant to cause its fast mail train to be taken into its station at
Cairo, and be stopped there long enough to receive and let off
passengers with safety; and that the statute, so construed,
was not an unconstitutional interference with interstate commerce, or with the carrying of the United States mails. 143
Illinois, 434. The defendant sued out this writ of error.
James Fentress for plain.Mr. Witram, E. Green and -Mr.
tiff in error.
.Mr.JoAn 2. -Lansdeon,(with whom was .Mr.Angus leek on
the brief,) for defendant in error.
MR. JusTICE

GRAY, after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
The line of railroad communication, crossing the Ohio River
at Cairo, and of which the Illinois Central Railroad forms
part, has been established by Congress as a national highway
for the accommodation of interstate commerce and of the
mails of the United States, and as such has been recognized
and promoted by the State of Illinois. This will clearly

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

appear by a brief recapitulation of the acts of Congress and
the statutes of Illinois upon the subject.
Congress, in the act of September 20, 1850, c. 61, granted a
right of way, and sections of the public lands, to the State of
Illinois, to aid in the construction of a railroad in that State
from the southern termination of the Illinois and Michigan
Canal "to a point at or near the junction of the Ohio and Mississippi Rivers," with branches to Chicago and Dubuque, "to be
and remain a public highway, for the use of the government
of the United States, free from toll or other charge upon the
transportation of any property or troops of the United States,"
and on which the United States mail should "at all times be
transported, under the direction of the Post Office Department,
at such price as the. Congress may by law direct;" and, in
order "to aid in the construction of said Central Railroad,"
made like grants to the States of Alabama and Mississippi,
respectively, for the purpose of aiding in the construction of
a railroad from the city of Mobile "to a point near the mouth
of the Ohio River." 9 Stat. 466.
The manifest purpose of Congress was to establish a railroad in the centre of the Continent, connecting the waters of
the Great Lakes with those of the Gulf of Mexico, for the
benefit of interstate commerce, as well as of the military and
postal departments of the government of the United States.
. The State of Illinois, by a statute of February 10, 1851,
chartered the Illinois Central Railroad Company, and ceded to
it the rights and lands granted to the State by the act of Congress, for the purpose of constructing and maintaining within
the State such a trunk line and branches, describing its southern terminus as "a point at the city of Cairo," and declaring
"said road and branches to be free for the use of the United
States, and to be employed by the Post-Office Department, as
provided in said act of Congress;" and (as if that were not
sufficient) by another statute, a week later, the State expressly
accepted the act of 'ongress, and agreed to be bound by the
conditions expressed therein.
By the statute of Illinois of February 2, 1855, all railroad
corporations of the State were empowered to make contracts

ILLINOIS CENTRAL RAILROAD CO. v. ILLINOIS.

151

Opinion of the Court.

with each other, and with railroad corporations of other States,
for leasing, or running, or connecting their railroads; and by
the statute of Illinois of February 25, 1867, railroads terminating at a point at which there was a railroad bridge on a line
of continuous railroad thoroughfare were required to be connected by rail, as to make "an uninterrupted communication
over such railroads and bridge as public thoroughfares."
By the act of Jane 15, 1866, c. 124, Congress, for the declared purpose of facilitating commerce among the several
States, and the postal and military communications of the
United States, authorized every railroad company in the
United States, whose road was operated by steam, to carry
over its road, bridges and ferries, as well passengers and freight,
as government mails, troops and supplies, from one State to
another; and to connect, in any State authorizing it to do so,
with roads of other States, so as to form continuous lines of
transportation. 14 Stat. 66.
By the acts of Congress of December 17, 1872, c. 4, and
February 14, 1883, c. 44, bridges were authorized to be built
across the Ohio River by any person or corporation, having
lawful authority therefor, and with the approval of the Secretary of War; and were declared to be lawful structures and
post routes for the transmission of the mails and the troops
and munitions of war of the United States. 17 Stat. 398; 22
Stat. 414.
It is not denied that the bridge across the Ohio River from
the Kentucky shore to the Illinois shore, opposite the city of
Cairo, was constructed by lawful authority, and as permitted
by Congress. Nor is it denied that the Illinois Central IRailroad Company had the right, under the acts of Congress and
the statutes of Illinois, to connect its road with that bridge,
and to run its southward bound trains over that bridge as part
of a system of interstate communication.
But it is contended, on behalf of the State of Illinois, that
the station of the Illinois Central Railroad Company, at the
southern terminus of its road in the city of Cairo, having been
originally established, and still remaining, at a point some
three and a half miles from so much of its main line as forms

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

part of the through communication by railroad from the
State of Illinois across the Ohio River to the State of Kentucky and other Southern States, the corporation is obliged,
by a statute of the State of Illinois, to cause all its trains,
including the fast mail train from Chicago to New Orleans, to
be brought down to that station, and to stop there long enough
to receive and let off passengers with safety.
The statute in question is as follows: "Every railroad corporation shall cause its passenger trains to stop upon its arrival
at each station, advertised by such corporation as a place for
receiving and discharging passengers upon and from such
trains, a sufficient length of time to receive and let off such
passengers with safety: Provided, all regular passenger trains
shall stop a sufficient length of time, at the railroad station of
county seats, to receive and let off passengers with safety."
Illinois Rev. Stat. of 1889, c. 114, § 88.
It was argued, in behalf of the railroad company,
that the
whole effect of this section, was to require each train "to stop
upon its arrival" at a station, long enough to receive and let
off passengers with safety; that the first part of the section
only required trains to stop upon arrival "at each station advertised as a place for receiving and discharging passengers
upon and from such trains;" that the proviso merely required
trains to stop, for a like time, on arriving at "the railroad
station of county seats," although not so advertised; and that
no part of the section required any train to arrive at, or to go
to, any particular station.
The Supreme Court of the State, however, held that the
statute not only required every train to stop at every county
seat at which it arrived, but that, as Cairo was admitted to be
a county seat, the statute required every train passing through
the city of Cairo to go to and stop at the station in that city.
The construction given to the statute in this particular by the
state court does not involve any Federal question, and must be
accepted by this court in judging of the constitutionality of the
statute. Chicago &c. Railway v. -Minnesota,134 U. S. 418,456.
But the decision that the statute, so construed, was not
an unconstitutional interference with interstate commerce, or

ILLINOIS CENTRAL RAILROAD CO. v. ILLINOIS.

153

Opinion of the Court.

with the carrying of the mails by the United States, was a
decision in favor of the validity of a state statute whose
validity was drawn in question on the ground of its being
repugnant to the Constitution and laws of the United States,
as well as a decision against a right specially set up and
claimed under the national Constitution and laws; and is
therefore clearly reviewable by this court.
The effect of the statute of Illinois, as construed and applied by the Supreme Court of the State, is to require a fast
mail train, carrying interstate passengers and the United
States mail, from Chicago in the State of Illinois to places
south of the Ohio River, over an interstate highway established by authority of Congress, to delay the transportation
of such passengers and mails, by turning aside from the
direct interstate route, and running to a station three miles
and a half away from a point on that route, and back again
to the same point, and thus travelling seven miles which form
no part of its course, before proceeding on its way; and to do
this for the purpose of discharging and receiving passengers at
that station, for the interstate travel to and from which, as is
admitted in this case, the railroad company furnishes other
and ample accommodation.
This court is unanimously of opinion that this requirement
is an unconstitutional hindrance and obstruction of interstate
commerce, and of the passage of the mails of the United
States.
Upon the state of facts presented by this record, the duties
of the Illinois Central Railroad Company were not confined
to those which it owed to the State of Illinois under the charter of the company and other laws of the State; but included
distinct duties imposed upon the corporation by the Constitution and laws of the United States.
The State may doubtless compel the railroad company to
perform the duty imposed by its charter of carrying passengers and goods between its termini within the State. But so
long, at least, as that duty is adequately performed by the
company, the State cannot, under the guise of compelling its
performance, interfere with the performance of paramount

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

duties to which the company has been subjected by the Constitution and laws of the United States.
The State may make reasonable regulations to secure the
safety uf passengers, even on interstate trains, while within its
borders. But the State can do nothing which will directly
burden or impede the interstate traffic of the company, or impair the usefulness of its facilities for such traffic. Railroad
Co. v. Richmond, 19 Wall. 584, 589; Stone v. .Fariner8' Loan
& Yrut Co., 116 U. S. 307, 334; SmitA v. Alabama, 124
U. S. 465.
It may well be, as held by the courts of Illinois, that the
arrangements made by the company with the Post-Office Department of the United States cannot have the effect of
abrogating a reasonable police regulation of the State. But a
statute of the State, which unnecessarily interferes with the
speedy and uninterrupted carriage of the mails of the United
States, cannot be considered as a reasonable police regulation.
In Union Pacific Railroad v. Ball, 91 U. S. 343, cited by
the counsel for the State, the writ of mandamus was issued
to promote, not to defeat, interstate transportation.
The question whether a statute which merely required interstate railroad trains, without going out of their course, to
stop at county seats, would be within the constitutional power
of the State, is not presented, and cannot be decided, upon
this record.
The result is that the judgment of the Supreme Court
of the State, which requires the Illinois Central Railroad
Company to cause its fast mail train to be brought into and
stopped at its station in Cairo, is erroneous, and must be
Reversed, and the cause remanded for further proceedings
not inconsistent with this opinion.

