UNION PACIFIC RAILWAY COPANY v. JAMES.

485

Syllabus.

are in reality two entirely separate findings of facts in the
case, the first one of which is much more specific than the
other, but contains evidence of facts as well as the facts themselves, but is less complete than the "statement of further
findings of facts and conclusions of law," which is practically
a finding of the ultimate facts of the case, and of the conclusion that, from the facts so found, the plaintiffs are entitled to
judgment. There is no finding of contributory negligence on
the part of the plaintiffs, nor do we think that the facts as
found compel the conclusion that the plaintiffs were guilty of
such negligence.
Other errors are assigned which it is unnecessary to notice
in detail. Most of them are covered by those already discussed, and some of them are so obviously frivolous as to require no discussion.
It is to be regretted that defendants found it necessary to
multiply their assignments to such an extent, as there is always a possibility that, in the very abundance of alleged
errors, a substantial one may be lost sight of. This is a comment which courts have frequent occasion to make, and one
which is too frequently disregarded by the profession.
There is no error in this case of which the defendants are
entitled to complain, and the judgment of the court below is
Afimd.
accordingly
Mr. JUSTICE FIELD dissented.

UNION PACIFIC RAILWAY COMPANY v. JAMES.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE EIGHTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 270. Argued May 4, 1896. -Decided

May 25, 1896.

The plaintiff, an employ6 of the railway company, sued to recover for
injuries caused to him by the unblocking of a frog, in consequence of
which he was thrown down, and an engine passed over him before he

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Statement of the Case.
could recover himself. There was contradictory testimony as to the
condition of the frog before and after the accident. On the trial below
the only issue presented was-the condition of the frog at the time of
the accident: but the court in substance instructed the jury that if the
company had once properly blocked the frog it incurred no liability to
its employ~s by reason of the subsequent displacement of the blocking,
unless such displacement was made with its knowledge or had continued
for such length of time as to impute notice to it. The same point having been taken in this court, Held,
(1) That there being a conflict of testimony as to the condition of the
frog, that question of fact was properly submitted to the jury;
(2) That while the position of law taken by the company in this court
cannot be disputed, it was not taken or considered on the trial,
and is not open for consideration here;
(a) That although the case is not entirely clear, this court is not prepared to hold, on the record, that there was such error as would
justify it in disturbing the judgment.

ON April 12, 1890, defendant in error filed his petition in

the District Court of Pottowattamie County, Iowa, to recover
of plaintiff in error $20,000 for personal injuries. From the
petition it appears that he was a brakeman in the employ of
the railway company; that the injury occurred at the town
of North Bend, in the State of Nebraska, and that it was
caused by reason of his catching his foot in the narrow angle
or frog made by the junction of the main and side tracks at
that place, from which frog he was unable to extricate himself until an engine had passed over him. It was alleged that
the blocking of such frog is the proper duty of every railway
compaiy, upon the performance of which every employ4 has
a right to rely; and, further, "that in fact, said angle or frog
was not then, and had not been, blocked or filled, but was in
a very dangerous and hazardous condition by reason of not
being blocked or filled, all of which the said defendant thein
and there knew, but of which said plaintiff had no knowledge
whatever."
The defendant answered with a general denial, and by
amendment that the plaintiff was entirely familiar with the
condition of the tracks at North Bend, and by virtue of such
knowledge waived the right to take advantage of any alleged
defect in their condition. The case was removed on application of the railway company to the Circuit Court of the United.

UNION PACIFIC RAILWAY COMPANY v. JAMES.

487

Opinion of the Court.

States for the Southern District of Iowa. Trial being had it
resulted in a verdict and judgment for the plaintiff, which was
affirmed by the Court of Appeals of the Eighth Circuit, 12
U. S. App. 482, to reverse which judgment the railway company sued out this writ of error.
.Mr. John.
Tkurston, (with whom was Mr. John F. DiY
Ion on the brief,) for plaintiff in error.
-Mr. _Franci8 A. Brogan, (with whom was -Mr. f. J. Oobent on the brief,) for defendant in error.
Mu. JUSTICE BREWER delivered the opinion of the court.
The issues in this case were made up by the charge in the
petition that the frog was not and had not been blocked, which
charge was denied, and which denial was supplemented by the
further allegation on the part of the railway company that
the plaintiff knew the condition of the tracks and continued
in defendant's employ with full knowledge of the same, waiving thereby the right to complain of any supposed defect.
The testimony of plaintiff was that at the time of the
accident, about one o'clock in the morning, the frog was unblocked. In addition he called five witnesses, who testified
that on the next morning they examined the track and that
there was no blocking in the frog; or, as one of them said,
"the same as no blocking at all." On the other hand, the
defendant introduced the testimony of seven witnesses, who
examined the track either the next morning, or soon thereafter, and each of whom found the frog properly blocked one of them, the section foreman, testifying that before the
accident he had himself put the blocking in.
Obviously the question which the parties submitted to the
jury was that of the existence or non-existence of a block in
the frog at the time of the accident. It is contended by the
railway company that the court erred in failing to give a
peremptory instruction to find a verdict for the defendant.
The only witness who testified to the condition of the frog

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

at the time of the accident was the plaintiff, and he testified
that it was an unblocked frog, and while the section foreman
testified that it was blocked before, and that he found it the
Sunday after in the same condition that he had originally
placed it, and while there was testimony of several witnesses
that immediately after the accident the frog was found to be
properly blocked, yet there was also equally satisfactory testimony to the contrary. As this latter testimony obviously
contradicts that of the section foreman as to the condition of
the frog after the accident, it tends to impeach it as to placing
blocking in the frog prior thereto. At any rate, in view of
the plaintiff's personal testimony, there was certainly a question of fact to be submitted to the jury as to whether the
frog was or was not blocked at the time of the accident, and
their conclusion in that respect cannot be challenged, and it
would have been error for the court to have given a peremptory instruction, based either way upon this disputed question
of fact.
Again, it is said that the only testimony as to the condition
of the frog prior to the accident was that of the section foreman, who testified that he had properly blocked it, and that
if that be ignored there was no testimony tending to show
that it was not at some time properly blocked and the block
removed without the knowledge of or notice to the railroad
company. The statement of the section foreman may be considered as challenged by the counter testimony of plaintiff and
his witnesses, and in the absence of any testimony as to the
condition of the frog prior to the accident the jury were not
bound to assume that the frog had once been properly blocked
and the blocking thereafter removed or destroyed. They
were at liberty to infer that it never had been blocked, that
the track as originally constructed at this place was as it was
found to be at the time of the accident, and so a case was presented of the absolute omission of the railroad company to
discharge its duty of providing a safe place for the movement of its trains and the work of its employ~s.
It is earnestly insisted by counsel for the railroad company
that the court improperly narrowed the issues submitted to

UNION PACIFIC RAILWAY COMPANY v. JAMES.

489

Opinion of the Court.

the jury by charging that the single question was whether
the frog was blocked or not at the time of the injury, and
it is urged that the true rule is, that if the railroad company
had once properly blocked the frog it incurred no liability to
its employ~s by reason of the subsequent displacement of the
blocking unless such displacement was with its knowledge or
bad continued for such a length of time as to impute notice
to it. We do not question the proposition of law as thus
stated, but the difficulty is that no such issue was tendered
by the pleadings, and the parties evidently went to trial upon
the single question whether the frog was or was not blocked
at the time of the accident. The charge in the petition was
that the frog was not and had never been blocked. The
answer denied this fact, and did not assume to set forth as a
defence that it had once been blocked and the block displaced
without the knowledge of or notice to the railroad company.
The railroad company was apparently content to rest its defence upon the single question of the existence of blocking at
the time of the injury. The testimony went to that alone.
In respect to this matter the trial judge in overruling the
motion for a new trial observed as follows:
"The argument now advanced by defendant in support of
his motion is, that even if the frog was unblocked, that fact
of itself would not make defendant liable for the injury resulting therefrom; that the proof must go farther, and bring to
defendant knowledge of such unblocked condition; either defendant must be proven to have had actual notice of such
unblocked condition, or such condition must be proven to
have existed so long as that, in the exercise of ordinary care,
defendant should have discovered it. Defendant contends
the proof did not fulfil these requisites as to notice, and that
the jury were not instructed with reference to applying these
requisites to the evidence.
"Neither in the opening statement to the jury, nor in the
argument to the jury after the evidence had closed, did counsel for defendant lay his case on the line of these requisites.
Throughout the trial, the position of defendant was that the
frog was blocked at the time of the injury. Both in opening

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

statement and in closing argument defendant's counsel insisted
the frog was blocked at the time of injury. To this, defendant's evidence was pointed, and in fact limited, so far as
it tended to refute the charge of negligence alleged and
attempted to be proven by plaintiff. Defendant did not
attempt to escape or avoid, by any showing of sudden tearing
out of the frog, whatever force attended plaintiff's evidence as
to an unblocked condition of the frog. On neither side war
any testimony introduced tending to show any sudden destruction of blocking at this frog. But on either side the contestwas as to whether the frog was in fact blocked at the time
of the injury. Plaintiff rested his claim, touching the causeof the injury, on the attempt to prove that such injury was
caused by the frog being unblocked at time of injury. And
defendant was equally content, as to evidence introduced, in
attempting to prove the frog was then blocked. And defendants counsel limited his argument to the jury upon the evidence to this same line-of defence."
Yet notwithstanding the pleadings and the testimony seemed
to narrow the issue to this particular matter, the court in its
instruction discussed the further question of the liability of
the company in case of an original proper blocking of the frog
and its subsequent displacement. It said, among other things,.
on this matter:
"If evidence had been introduced to show that suddenly,.
by some disarrangement of the machinery of the train, thewooden part of the frog or blocking had been pulled out of
the frog at a time so near the injury, as that the company
could not have been charged with negligence in not havingfound it out reasonably by inspection through its workmen or
otherwise, before the injury, then in an accident of that kind
the company would not be liable for the injury to plaintiff,
because the company would not have been negligent in not.
ascertaining that the block had been thus removed."
So that it cannot be said that the proposition of law upon
which counsel for the railroad company so strenuously insists
was wholly ignored on the triaL It was in fact presented by
the court to the jury, although, it is true, coupled with the,

MISSOURI, KANSAS & TEXAS RAILWAY v. COOK.

491

Statement of the Case.

statement that the issues made by the pleadings and the silence
of the testimony in respect to the prior situation narrowed
their inquiry to the single matter of the condition at the time
of the accident.
It must be confessed that this case is not entirely clear, and
yet, considering the entire record, we are not prepared to
hold that there was error such as would justify this court in

disturbing the judgment.
It is, therefore,

MISSOURI, KANSAS AND TEXAS RAILWAY COMPANY v. COOK.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF KANSAS.
No. 178. Argued and submitted March 24, 1896. -Decided May 25, 1896.

By the filing of the map of the line surveyed prior to December 24, 1867, for
the route of the railroad now known as the Missouri, Kansas and Texas
Rallway, the route of the road was definitely fixed within the intent and
meaning of the act of July 261 1866, c. 270, 14 Stat. 289, granting lands
-to aid in its construction; and while the principal object in filing the
map was to secure the withdrawal of the lands granted, it also operated
to definitely locate the line and limits of the right of way.
The grant of the lands and the grant of the right of way were alike
grants inpresenti,and stood on the same footing; so that, before deftnite location, all persons acquiring any portion of the public lands after
the passage of the act took the same subject to the right of way for the
proposed road.
The rights of the settler in this case were acquired after the line had been
located, and were not affected by the subsequent act of the company in
changing the location.

Tins was an action of ejectment brought by the Missouri,
Kansas and Texas Railway Company, a corporation of the
State of Kansas, and the Missouri Pacific Railway Company,
a corporation of Missouri, in the District Court of Labette
County, Kansas, August 17, 1887, against J. B. Cook and L. H.
Printz, to recover possession of certain real estate situated in

