UNITED STATES v. PERICINS.
Opinion of the Court.

UNITED STATES v. PERKINS.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
No. 422. Submitted May 8, 196. -Decided

May 25, 1S96.

Personal property, bequeathed by will to the United States, is subject to an
inheritance tax under state law.
Under the statutes of New York the United States are not a corporation,
exempted from such inheritance tax.

Tmis was a writ of error to an order of the General Term
of the Supreme Court, affirming an order of the Surrogate's
Court of Suffolk County, assessing an inheritance tax of
$3964.23 upon the personal property of William W. Merriam,
bequeathed by him to the United States.
It appeared that Merriam, who was a resident of Suffolk
County, died on January 30, 1889, leaving a last will and
testament, by which he devised and bequeathed all his estate,
both real and personal, to the United States government.
Upon the petition of the executor an appraiser was appointed,
and upon his report the Surrogate fixed the tax at the above
amount. On appeal to the General Term of the Supreme
Court the order of the Surrogate's Court was affirmed, and
upon a further appeal to the Court of Appeals the order of
the Supreme Court was affirmed, and the case remanded to
that court for final judgment, which was entered against the
United States March 31, 1894. Whereupon the United States
and the executor joined in suing out this writ of error.
Defendant in error is the county treasurer of Suffolk County.
A r. Solicitor Generalfor plaintiffs in error.
r1".Timothy X. Gr.fling for defendant in error.
MR. JusTiCo

BRowN, after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
This case raises the single question whether personal
VOL. CLXII--

026:

OCTOBER TERMf, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

property bequeathed by will to the United States is subject
to an inheritance tax under the laws of New York.
By chapter 483, Laws of 1885, as amended by chapter 215,
Laws of 1891, it was enacted as follows: " SEC. 1. After the
passage of this act all property which shall pass by will or by
the intestate laws of this State from any person who may
die seized or possessed of the same while a resident of this
State,
.
.
to any person or persons, or to any body politic or corporate, in trust or ' otherwise, . . . other than

to or for societies, corporations and institutions now exempted
by law from taxation, or from collateral inheritance tax, shall
be and is subject to a tax at the rate hereinafter specified,"
etc.
By chapter 399 of the Laws of 1892, Yol. 1, entitled "An act
in relation to taxable transfers of property," (sec. 1,). "a tax
shall be and is hereby imposed upon the transfer of any
property, real or personal, of the value of five hundred dollars
or over, .
to persons or corporations not exempt by
law from taxation on real or personal property." By sec. 23
of this law certain previous acts were repealed, subject to a
saving clause contained in sec. 24, to the effect that the
repeal should not affect or impair any act done, or right
accruing, accrued or acquired, or liability, penalty, forfeitute
or punishment incurred prior to the passage of this act. The
twenty-fifth section also provided that the provisions of this
act, so far as they were substantially the same as those of
the laws existing April 30, 1892, should be construed as a
continuation of such laws, modified or amended according to
the language employed in this act, and not as new enactments.
The testator Merriam died January 30, 1889, but the tax was
not assessed until February 16, 1893, after the act of 1892 had
taken effect. Upon this state of facts, the Court of Appeals
of New York was of opinion that the case was covered by the
act of 1892, although it was thought that the legacy was
subject to taxation whether it was taxed under that or the
previous acts. This ruling as to the applicability of the act
of 1892 seems to conflict with the case of Seaman, 147 N. Y.
69. but the difference is not material in this case.

UNITED STATES v. PERKINS.
Opinion of the Court.

The case really presents two questions:
1. Whether it is within the power of the State to tax bequests to the United States.
2. Whether, under these statutes, the United States are a
corporation exempted by law from taxation.
1. While the laws of all civilized States recognize in every
citizen the absolute right to his own earnings, and to the
enjoyment of his own property, and the increase thereof,
during his life, except so far as the State may require him to
contribute his share for public expenses, the right to dispose
of his property by will has always been considered purely a
creature of statute and within legislative control. "By the
common law, as it stood in the reign of Henry II, a man's
goods were to be divided into three equal parts; of which one
went to his heirs or lineal descendants, another to his wife,
and a third was at his own disposal; or if he died without a
wife, he might then dispose of one moiety, and the other went
to his children; and so, e converso, if he had no children, tho
wife was entitled to one moiety, and he might bequeath the
other; but if he died without either wife or issue, the whole
was at his own disposal." 2 B1. Com. 492. Prior to the
Statute of Wills, enacted in the reign of Henry VIII, the right
to a testamentary disposition of property did not extend to real
estate at all, and as to personal estate was limited as above
stated. Although these restrictions have long since been
abolished in England, and never existed in this country, except in Louisiana, the right of a widow to her dower and to a
share in the personal estate is ordinarily secured to her by
statute.
By the Code Napoleon, gifts of property, whether by acts
inter ViVO8 or by will, must not exceed one half the estate if
the testator leave but one child; one third, if he leaves two
children; one fourth, if he leaves three or more. If he have
no children, but leaves ancestors, both in the paternal and
maternal line, he may give away but one half of his property,
and but three fourths if he have ancestors in but one line. By
the law of Italy, one half a testator's property must be distributed equally among all his children; the other half he may

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

leave to his eldest son or to whomsoever he pleases. Similar
restrictions upon the power of disposition by will are found in
the codes of other continental countries, as well as in the
State of Louisiana. Though the general consent of the most
enlightened nations has, from the earliest historical period,
recognized a natural right in children to inherit the property
of their parents, we know of no legal principle to prevent the
legislature from taking away or limiting the right of testamentary disposition or imposing such conditions upon its exercise as it may deem conducive to public good.
In this view, the so called inheritance tax of the State of
New York is in reality a limitation upon the power of a testator to bequeath his property to whom he pleases; a declaration
that, in the exercise of that power, he shall contribute a certain percentage to the public use; in other words, that the
right todispose of his property by will shall remain, but subject to a condition that the State has a right to impose. Certainly, if it be true that the right of testamentary disposition
is purely statutory, the State has a right to require a contribution to the public treasury before the bequest shall take
effect. Thus the tax is not upon the property, in the ordinary
sense of the term, but upon the right to dispose of it, and it is
not until it has yielded its contribution to the State that it
becomes the property of the legatee. This was the view taken
of a similar tax by the Court of Appeals of Maryland in State
v. Dalrymple, 70 Maryland, 294, 299, in which the court observed: "Possessing, then, the plenary power indicated, it
necessarily follows that the State in allowifig property
.

.

.

to be disposed of by will, and in designating who

shall take such property where there is no will, may prescribe
such conditions, not in conflict with or forbidden by the
organic law, as the legislature may deem expedient. These
conditions, subject to the limitation named, are, consequently,
wholly within the discretion of the General Assembly. The
act we are now considering plainly intended to require that a
person taking the benefit of a civil right secured to him under
our laws should pay a certain premium for its enjoyment. In
other words, one of the conditions upon which strangers and

UNITED STATES v. PERKINS.
Opinion of the Court.

collateral kindred may acquire a decedent's property, which is
subject to the dominion of our laws, is, that there shall be

paid out of such property a tax of two and a half per cent
into the treasury of the State. This, therefore, is not a tax
upon the property itself, but is merely the price exacted by
the State for the privilege accorded in permitting property so
situated to be transferred by will or by descent or distribution."
That the tax is not a tax upon the property itself, but upon
its transmission by will or by descent, is also held both in
:New York and in several other States, Matter of the E tate
of Swift, 137 N. Y. 77, in which it is said, p. 85, that "the
effect of this special tax is to take from the property a portion, or a percentage of it, for the use of the State, and I
think it quite immaterial whether the tax can be precisely
classified with a taxation of property or not. It is not a tax
upon persons." .Matter of Uoffnan, 143 N. Y. 327; Schoolfeld's Executor v. -Lynchburg,78 Virginia, 366; Strode v. Commonwealth, 52 Penn. St. 181; In re Cullum, 145 N. Y. 593.
In this last case, as well as in Wallace v. .Myers, 38 Fed. Rep.
184-, it was held that, although the property of the decedent
included United States bonds, the tax might be assessed upon
the basis of their value, because the tax was not imposed
upon the bonds themselves, but upon the estate 9f the decedent,
or the privilege of acquiring property by inheritance. Eyre v.
Jacob, 14 Grattan, 422; Dos Passos on Inheritance Tax Law,
chap. 2, sec. 8, and cases cited. Such a tax was also held by
this court to be free from any constitutional objection in .iager
v. Grima, 8 How. 490, 493, Mr. Chief Justice Taney remarking that "the law in question is nothing more than an
exercise of the power which every State and sovereignty possesses, of regulating the manner and terms within which property, real and personal, within its dominion may be transferred
by last will and testament, or by inheritance; and of prescribing who shall and who shall not be capable of taking it.
.

.

.

If a State may deny the privilege altogether, it fol-

lows that when it grants it, it may annex to the grant any
conditions which it supposes to be required by its interests or

OCTOBER TERM, 1395.
Opinion of the Court.

policy."

To the same effect is United States v. Fox, 94 U. S.

315.
We think that it follows from this that the act in question
is not open to the objection that it is an attempt to tax the
property of the United States, since the tax is imposed upon
the legacy before it reaches the hands of the government.
The legacy becomes the property of the United States only
after it has suffered a diminution to the amount of the tax,
and it is only upon this condition that the legislature assents
to a bequest of it.
2. Whether the United States are a corporation "exempt
by law from taxation," within the meaning of the New York
statutes, is the remaining question in the case. The Court of
Appeals has held that this exemption was applicable only
to domestic corporations declared by the laws of New York
to be exempt from taxation. Thus, in .Matter of Estate of
_Prime, 136 N. Y. 347, it was held that foreign religious and
charitable corporations were not exempt from the payment of
a legacy tax, Chief Judge Andrews observing (p. 360): "We
are of opinion that a statute of a State granting powers and
privileges to corporations must, in the absence of plain indications to the contrary, be held to apply only to corporations
created by the State and over which it has power of visitation
The legislature in such cases is dealing
and control.
with its own creations, whose rights and obligations it may
limit, define and control." To the same effect are Catlin v.
Trustees of Trinity College, 113 N. Y. 133; White v. Howard,
46 N. Y. 144; .Matter of Balleis, 144 N. Y. 132; Minot v.
Winthrop, 162 Mass. 113; Dos Passos, chap. 3, sec. 34. If
the ruling of the Court of Appeals of New York in this particular case be not absolutely binding upon us, we think that,
having regard to the purpose of the law to impose a tax generally upon inheritances, the legislature intended to allow an
exemption only in favor of such corporations as it had itself
created, and which might reasonably be supposed to be the
special objects of its solicitude and bounty.
In addition to this, however, the United States are not one
of the class of corporations intended by law to be exempt
.

UNITED STATES v. FITCH.
Names of Counsel.

from taxation.

What the corporations are to which the ex-

emption was intended to apply are indicated by the tax laws
of New York, and are'confined to those of a religious, educational, charitable or reformatory purpose. We think it was
not intended to apply it to a purely political or governmental
corporation like the United States.
Catlin v. Twstees of
Trinity College, 113 N. Y. 133; .Matter of Estate of Van
Eleeck, 121 N. Y. 701; Dos Passos, chap. 3, see. 34. In the
.Matterof Hamilton, 148 N. Y. 310, it was held that the execution did not apply to a municipality, even though created
by the State itself.
Upon the whole, we think the construction put upon the
statute by the Court of Appeals was correct, and the judg:
ment of the Supreme Court is, therefore,
A ffrmed.
dissented.
HATRLAN
JUsTicE
MR.

UNITED STATES v. FITCH.
Error to the Supreme Court of the
State of New York. No. 828. Submitted with No. 422.

AIM. JUSTICE BROWw. In this case George W. Cullum, a resident of the State of New York, died in the city of New York on
February 28,1892, leaving a last will and testament, which, on the
30th day of April, 1892, was duly admitted to probate.' By this will
the testator bequeathed to the United States government the sum of
$175,100, upon which, by order of the Surrogate's Court, there was
assessed an inheritance tax of $8755.
The case does not differ in principle from the one above decided,
and the judgment of the court below is, therefore,
Affirmed.
MR. JusTIcE HARLAN

dissented.

.M . Solicitor General for plaintiffs in error.
Mr. Bdnjamin F. Dos Passes and Mr. EdgarJ. Levey for defendant in error.

