HENNINGTON

v. GEORGIA.

Syllabus.

of the lodge to which Kalinski belonged to notify the secietary of the proper section of the endowment rank of the fact
that he was in arrears for dues, and his failure to do this should
be imputed to the defendant, as representing the order, rather
than to Kalinski. It is more than possible that, as the endowment rank was a separate and distinct feature from the lodges,
Kalinski was wholly ignorant of the fact that a failure to pay
his lodge dues promptly forfeited his certificate; and while,
as matter of law, he might be chargeable with notice of this
fact, his beneficiary has a perfect right to insist that the defendant was guilty of a technical dereliction of its own duty
in the premises. The defence in any aspect does not commend itself highly to one's sense of natural justice, and, for
the reasons above stated, we are of the opinion that the decision of the court below was right, and it is, therefore,
-A4frrned.

HENNINGTON v. GEORGIA.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF GEORGIA.
No.

0. Argued March IT,18, 1896.-Decided May 18,1896.

The legislation of the State of Georgia, contained In §§ 4578 and 4310 of
the Code of 1882, forbidding the running of freight trains on any railroad
In the State on Sunday, and providing for the trial and punishment, on
conviction, of the superintendent of a railroad company violating that
provision, although It affects interstate commerce In a limited degree,
is not, for that reason, a needless Intrusion upon the domain of Federal
jurisdiction, nor strictly a regulation of interstate commerce, but Is an
ordinary police regulation, designed to secure the well-being, and to promote the general welfare of the people within the State, and Is not invalid by force alone of the Constitution of the United States ; but Is to
be respected in the courts of the Union until superseded and displaced
by some act of Congress, passed in execution of the power granted to
It by the Constitution.
There Is nothing in the legislation in question In this case that suggests
that it was enacted with the purpose to regulate Interstate commerce, or
with any other purpose than to prescribe a rule of civil duty for all who,
on the Sabbath day, are within the territorial jurisdiction of the State.

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. Edward Colston for plaintiff in error.
Hoadly, Jr., was on his brief.

2.

George

-Mr. T.TM. Terrell for defendant in error.
XR. JusTiCE HARL"

delivered the opinion of the court.

The plaintiff in error, llennington, superintendent of transportatioib, and having charge of the freight business of the
Alabama Great Southern Railroad Company, was indicted in
the Superior Court of Dade County, Georgia, for the offence
of having, on the 15th day of March, 1891 -that being the
Sabbath day- unlawfully run a freight train on the Alabama Great Southern Railroad in that county.
The statute under which the prosecution was instituted is
as follows: "Code of Georgia, 1882, Sec. 4578. If any freight
train shall be run on any railroad in this State on the Sabbath
day (known as Sunday), the superintendent of transportation
of such railroad company, or the officer having charge of the
business of that department of the railroad, shall be liable for
indictment for a misdemeanor in each county through which
such train shall pass, and, on conviction, shall be for each
offence punished as prescribed in section 4310 of this code.
On such trial it shall not be necessary to allege or prove the
names of any of the employ~s engaged on such train, but
the simple fact of the train being run. The defendant may
justify himself by proof that such employ~s acted in direct
violation of the orders and rules of the-defendant: Provided,
always, That whenever any train on any railroad in this State,
having in such train one or more cars loaded with live stock,
which train shall be delayed beyond schedule time, shall not
be required to lay over on the line of road or route during
Sunday, but may run on to the point where, by due course of
shipment or consignment, the next stock pen on the route
may be, where said animals may be fed and watered, according to the facilities usually afforded for such transportation.
And it shall be lawful for all freight trains on the different

HEININGTON v. GEORGIA.
Opinion of the Court.

railroads in this State, running over said roads on Saturday
night, to run through to destination: Provided,The time of
arrival, according to the schedule by which the train or trains
started on the trip, shall not be later than eight o'clock on
Sunday morning."
Section 4310, referred to in the section just quoted, is as
follows:
"Accessories after the fact, except where it is otherwise
ordered in this code, shall be punished by a fine not to exceed
one thousand dollars, imprisonment not to exceed six months,
to-work in the chain-gang on the public works, or on such
other works as the county authorities may employ the chaingang, not to exceed twelve months, and any one or more of these
punishments may be ordered in the discretion of the judge:
Provided,That nothing herein contained shall authorize the
giving the control of convicts to private persons, or their employment by the county authorities in such mechanical pursuits
as will bring the products of their labor into competition with
the products of free labor."
The defendant pleaded not guilty. He also pleaded specially
certain facts which, he averred, showed that the statute of
Georgia, as applied to this case, was in conflict with the provision of the Constitution of the United States giving Congress power to regulate commerce among the States.
At the trial the defendant admitted that he was superintendent of transportation of the Alabama Great Southern
Railroad, the property of the Alabama Great Southern Railroad Company, a corporation of Alabama; that the line of
that railroad began at the city of Chattanooga, Tennessee, extended nine miles through that State, when it entered the county
of Dade, Georgia, and ran through that county and over the
line of road constructed and operated originally by the Wills
Valley Railroad Company, into Alabama; thence through
Alabama two hundred and forty-five miles, and into Mississippi, to the city of Meridian, where it connected with other
roads; that said company was acting as a common carrier of
passengers and freight along its line, using engines and cars
propelled by steam; that on the day mentioned in the in-

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court

dictment the company, by its superintendent of transporta.
tion, the defendant, ran over its line of road from Chattanooga,
Tennessee, through Georgia and Alabama to Meridian, Mississippi, a train of cars laden with freight for points beyond
the limits of Georgia, the train having been loaded in Tennessee with freight destined for points outside and beyond
the limits of Georgia.
. The defendant contended that the statute, if applied to these
facts, was repugnant to the Constitution of the United States.
This contention was overruled and the jury were instructed
that, under the facts admitted, the defendant was guilty.
The jury accordingly found him guilty as charged in the indictment.
The case was taken to the Supreme Court of Georgia, and
it was assigned for errror that the trial court refused to adjudge section 4578 of the Code of Georgia, when applied to
the admitted facts, to be repugnant to the commerce clause
of the Constitution.
The Supreme Court of Georgia held the statute, under
which the prosecution was instituted, to be a regulation of internal police and not a regulation of commerce; that it was
not in conflict with the Constitution of the United States
even as to freight trains passing through the State from and
to adjacent States, and laden exclusively with freight received on board before the trains entered Georgia and consigned to points beyond its limits.
As the judgment of the Supreme Court of Georgia denied
to the defendant a right or immunity specially set up and
claimed by him under the Constitution of the United States,
no question is or can be made as to the jurisdiction of this
court to review that judgment.
If the statute in question forbidding the running in Georgia
of railroad freight trains, on the Sabbath day, had been expressly limited to trains laden with domestic freight, it could
not be regarded otherwise than as an ordinary police regulation established by the State under its general power to protect the health and morals, and to promote the welfare, of its
people.

RENNINGTON v. GEORGIA.
Opinion of the Court.

From the earliest period in the history of Georgia it has
been the policy of that State, as it was the policy of many of
the original States, to prohibit all persons, under penalties,
from using the Sabbath as a day for labor and for pursuing
their ordinary callings. By an act of the Colonial legislatura
of Georgia, approved March 4, 1762, it was provided: "No
tradesman, artificer, workman, laborer or other person whatsoever shall do or exercise any worldly labor, business or work
of their ordinary callings, upon the Lord's day, or any part
thereof (works of necessity or charity only excepted), and
that every person being of the age of fifteen years or upwards,
offending in the premises, shall, for every such offence, forfeit
the sum of ten shillings. And that no person or persons
whatsoever shall publicly cry, show forth, or expose to sale,
any wares, merchandise, fruit, herbs, goods or chattels whatsoever upon the Lord's day, or any part thereof, upon pain
that every person so offending shall forfeit the same goods so
cried or.showed forth, or exposed to sale, or pay ten shillings."
2 Cobb's New Dig. Laws, Georgia, 853. This act is substantially preserved in section 4579 of the Code of Georgia. And
by an act approved February 11, 1850, it was provided: "That
from and after the 1st day of March next it shall not be lawful for any company or individual to run any freight train or
any car carrying freight upon any railroad now existing, or
that may hereafter be made, in this State, on the Sabbath
day; and any conductor or other person so running or assisting in running any train or car carrying freight on the Sabbath day shall each be guilty of a misdemeanor, and on conviction thereof each conductor shall be fined in a sum not
exceeding five hundred dollars." 1 Cobb's New Dig. Laws,
Georgia, 399. This act was amended by substituting "superintendent of transportation" for "conductor," and in 'other
particulars, not important to be mentioned, and as amended
it constitutes section 4578 of the' Criminal Code, under the
heading of "Offences against public morality, health, police,"
etc. Code of Georgia, 1882.
In what light is the statute of Georgia to be regardedI
The well settled rule is, that if a statute purporting to have

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

been enacted to protect the public health, the public morals
or the public safety has no real or substantial relation to those
objects, or is a palpable invasion of rights secured by the
fundamental law, it is the duty of the courts to so adjudge
and thereby give effect to the Constitution. -Hugler v. _ansas, 123 U. S. 623, 661; .Minnesota v. Barber, 136 U. S. 313,
350.
In our opinion there is nothing in the legislation in question
which suggests that it was enacted with the purpose to regulate interstate commerce, or with any other purpose than to
prescribe a rule of civil duty for all who, on the Sabbath day,
are within the territorial jurisdiction of the State. It is none
the less a civil regulation because the day on which the running of freight trains is prohibited is kept by many under
a sense of religious duty. The'legislature having, as will not
be disputed, power to enact laws to promote the order and to
secure the comfort, happiness and health of the people, it was
within its discretion to fix the day when all labor, within the
limits of the State, works of necessity and charity excepted,
should cease. It is not for the judiciary to say that the
wrong day was fixed, much less that the legislature erred
when it assumed that the best interests of all required that
one day in seven should be kept for the purposes of rest from
ordinary labor. The fundamental law of the State committed
these matters to the determination of the legislature. If the
law making power errs in such matters, its responsibility is
to the electors, and not to the judicial branch of the government. The whole theory of our government, Federal and
state, is hostile to the idea that questions of legislative authority may depend upon expediency, or upon opinions of judges
as to the wisdom or want of wisdom in the enactment of laws
under powers clearly conferred upon the legislature. The
legislature of Georgia no doubt acted upon the view that the
keeping of one day in seven for rest and relaxation was
"of admirable service to a State considered merely as a civil
institution." 4 Bl. Com. * 63. The same view was expressed
by Mr. Justice Field in .Ex partk Newman, 9 California, 502,
519, 528, when, referring to a statute of California relating to

HENNINGTON v. GEORGIA.
Opinion of the Court.

the Sabbath day, he said: "Its requirement is a cessation
from labor. In its enactment, the legislature has given the
sanction of law to a rule of conduct, which the entire civilized
world recognizes as essential to the physical and moral wellbeing of society. Upon no subject is there such a concurrence
of opinion, among philosophers, moralists and statesmen of all
nations, as on the necessity of periodical cessation from labor.
One day in seven is the rule, founded in experience and sus.
The prohibition of secular business
tained by science.
on Sunday is advocated on the ground that by it the general
welfare is advanced, labor protected, and the moral and physical well-being of society promoted."
So, in Bloom v. Rickards, 2 Ohio St. 387, 391, Judge Thurman, delivering the unanimous judgment of the Supreme
Court of Ohio, said: "We are, then, to regard the statute
under consideration as a mere municipal or police regulation,
whose validity is neither strengthened nor weakened by the
fact that the day of rest it enjoins is the Sabbath day. Wisdom requires that men should refrain from labor at least one
day in seven, and the advantages of having the day of rest
fixed, and so fixed as to happen at regularly recurring intervals, are too obvious to be overlooked. It was within the constitutional competency of the general assembly to require the
cessation of labor, and to name the day of rest."
To the same general effect are many cases: Syeckt v. Cor,nonwealth, 8 Penn. St. 312, 322; Commonwealth v. Ea, 122
Mass. 40, 42; Frollckstein v. Mobile, 40 Alabama, 725; Ex
parte Avdrews, 18 California, 678, in which the dissenting
opinion of Mr. Justice Field in Ex parte -Ifewman, 9 California, 502, was approved; State v. Railroad,24 W. Va. 783;
Scalas v. State, 47 Arkansas, 476, 482; State v. Ams, 20 Missouri, 214; .Mayor &c. v. Linck, 12 Lea, 499, 515.
The same principles were announced by the Supreme Court
of Georgia in the present case. As the contention is that that
court erred in not adjudging the statute in question to be unconstitutional, it is appropriate that the grounds upon which
it proceeded should fully appear in this opinion. That court,
speaking by Chief Justice Bleckley, said: "There can be no
VOL. c izn-20

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

well founded doubt of its being a police regulation, considering it merely as ordaining the cessation of ordinary labor and
business during one day in every week; for the frequent and
total suspension of the toils, cares and strain of mind or muscle
incident to pursuing an occupation or common employment, is
beneficial to every individual, and incidentally to the community at large, the general public. Leisure is no less essential
than labor to the well-being of man. Short intervals of leisure at stated periods reduce wear and tear, promote health,
favor cleanliness, encourage social intercourse, afford opportunity for introspection and retrospection, and tend in a high
degree to expand the thoughts and sympathies of people,
enlarge their information, and elevate their morals. They
learn how to be, and come to realize that being is quite as
important as doing. Without frequent leisure, the process
of forming character could only be begun; it could never
advance or be completed; people would be mere machines
,of labor- or business -nothing
more. If a law which, in
essential respects, betters for all the people the conditions,
sanitary, social and individual, under which their daily life
is carried on, and which contributes to insure for each, even
against his own will, his minimum allowance of leisure, cannot be rightfully classed as a police regulation, it would be
difficult to imagine any law that could."
That court further said: "With respect to the selection of
the particular day in each week which has been set apart
by our statute as the rest day of the people, religious views
and feelings may have had a controlling influence. We doubt
not that they did have; and it is probable that the same
views and feelings had a very powerful influence in dictating the policy of setting apart any day whatever as a day
of enforced rest. But neither of these considerations is destructive -df the police nature and character of the statute.
If good and sufficient police reasons underlie it, and substantial police purposes are involved in its provisions, these
reasons and purposes constitute its civil and legal justification, whether they were or not the direct and immediate
motives which induced its passage, and have for so long a

HENNINGTON v. GEORGIA.
Opinion of the Court

time kept it in force. Courts are not concerned with the
mere beliefs and sentiments of legislators, or with the motives which influence them in enacting laws which are within
legislative competency. That which is properly made a civil
duty by statute is none the less so because it is also a real or
supposed religious obligation; nor is the statute vitiated, or in
anywise weakened, by the chance, or even the certainty, that
in passing it the legislative mind was swayed by the religious
rather than by the civil aspect of the measure. Doubtless it
is a religious duty to pay debts, but no one supposes that this
is any obstacle to its being exacted as a civil duty. With few
exceptions, the same may be said of the whole catalogue of
duties specified in the Ten Commandments. Those of them
which are purely and exclusively religious in their nature cannot be, or be made civil duties, but all the rest of them may
be, in so far as they involve conduct as distinguished from
mere operations of mind or states of the affections. Opinions
may differ, and they really do differ, as to whether abstaining
from labor on Sunday is a religious duty; but whether it is
or is not, it is certain that the legislature of Georgia has prescribed it as a civil duty. The statute can fairly and rationally be treated as a legitimate police regulation, and thus
treated, it is a valid law. There is a wide difference between
keeping a day holy as a religious observance and merely forbearing to laboron that day in one's ordinary vocation or
business pursuit." Bennington v. Georgia, 90 Georgia, 396,
397-399.
Assuming, then, that both upon principle and authority the
statute of Georgia is, in every substantial sense, a police
regulation established under the general authority possessed
by the legislature to provide, by laws, for the well-being of
the people, we proceed to consider whether it is in conflict
with the Constitution of the United States.
The defendant contends that the running on the Sabbath
day of railroad cars, laden with interstate freight, is committed
exclusively to the control and supervision of the lNTational
Government; and that, although Congress has not taken any
affirmative action upon the subject, state legislation interrupt-

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

ing, even for a limited time only, interstate commerce, what.
ever may be its object and however essential such legislation
may be for the comfort, peace and safety of the people of the
State, is a regulation of interstate commerce forbidden by the
Constitution of the United States. Is this view of the Constitution and of the relations between the States and the
General Government sustained by the former decisions of this
court I Is the admitted general power of a State to provide
by legislation for the health, the morals and the general
welfare of its people, so fettered that it may not enact any
law whatever that relates to or affects in any degree the conduct of commerce among the States? If the people of a State
deem it necessary to their peace, comfort and happiness, to
say nothing of the public health and the public morals, that
one day in each week be set apart by law as a day when
business of all kinds carried on within the limits of that State
shall cease, whereby all persons of every race and condition
in life may have an opportunity to enjoy absolute rest and
quiet, is that result, so far as interstate freight traffic is concerned, attainable only through an affirmative act of Congress
giving its assent to such legislation?
The argument in behalf of the defendants rests upon the
erroneous assumption that the statute of Georgia is such a
regulation of interstate commerce as is forbidden by the Constitution, without reference to affirmativ'e action by Congress,
and not merely a statute enacted by the State under its police
power, and which, although in some degree affecting interstate commerce, does not go beyond the necessities of the
case, and, therefore, is valid, at least until Congress interferes.
The distinction here suggested is not new in our jurisprudence. It has been often recognized and enforced by this
court. In Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheat. 1, 203, 210, this court
recognized the possession by each State of a general power of
legislation, that "embraces everything within the territory of
a State, not surrendered to the General Government; all
which can be most advantageously exercised by the States
themselves." Inspection laws, although having, as the court
said in that case, "a remote and considerable influence on

HENNINGTON v. GEORGIA.
Opinion of the Court.

commerce," are yet within the authority of the States to enact,
because no direct, general power over the objects of such laws
was granted to Congress. So, also, quarantine laws of every
description, if they have real relation to the objects named in
them, are to be referred to the power which the States have
to make provision for the health and safety of their people.
But neither inspection, quarantine nor health laws enacted by
a State have been adjudged void, by force alone of the
Constitution and in the absence of Congressional legislation,
simply because they remotely, or even directly, affected or
temporarily suspended commerce among the States and with
foreign nations. Of course, if the inspection, quarantine or
health laws of a State, passed under its reserved power to
provide for the health, comfort and safety of its people, come
into conflict with an act of Congress, passed under its power
to regulate interstate and foreign commerce, such local regulations, to the extent of the conflict, must give way in order
that the supreme law of the land- an act of Congress passed
in pursuance of the Constitution -may have unobstructed
operation. The possibility of conflict between State and
national enactments, each to be referred to the undoubted
powers of the State and the Nation, respectively, was not
overlooked in Gibbo8 v. Ogden, and Chief Justice Marshall
said: "The framers of our Constitution foresaw this state of
things, and provided for it, by declaring the supremacy not
only of itself, but of the laws made in pursuance of it. The
nullity of any act inconsistent with the Constitution is produced by the declaration that the Constitution is the supreme
law. The appropriate application of that part of the clause
which confers the same supremacy on laws and treaties is to
such acts of the state legislatures as do not transcend these
powers, but, though enacted in the execution of acknowledged
state powers, interfere with or are contrary to the laws of
Congress, made in pursuance of the Constitution, or some
treaty made under the authority of the United States. In
every such case the act of Congress, or the treaty, is supreme;
and the law of the State, though enacted in the exercise of
powers not controverted, must yield to it."

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

These principles are illustrated in numerous decisions of this
court, to some of which it is proper to refer.
In Willson v. Black Bird Creek .Marh Comvany, 2 Pet.
2-15, 251, 252, it appeared that that company claimed the
right, under a statute of Delaware, to place a dam across a
navigable creek, up which the tide flowed for some distance,
and thereby abridge the rights of those accustomed to use the
stream. This court, after observing that the construction of
the dam would enhance the value of the adjoining land and
probably improve the health of the inhabitants, and that such
an abridgment of private rights, unless it came in conflict with
the Constitution or a law of the United States, was an affair
between the government of Delaware and its citizens, of
which this court could not take cognizance, said: "The counsel for plaintiffs in error insist that it comes in conflict with
the power of the United States 'to regulate commerce with
.foreign nations and among the several States.' If Congress
had passed any act which bore upon the case; any act in
execution of the power to regulate commerce, the object of
which was to control state legislation over those small navigable creeks into which the tide flows, and which abound
throughout the lower country of the Middle and Southern
States; we should feel not much difficulty in saying that a
state law coining in conflict with such act would be void. But
Congress has passed no such act. The repugnancy of the law
of Delaware to the Constitution is placed entirely on its repugnancy to the power to regulate commetce with foreign
nations and among the several States; a power which has not
been so exercised as to affect the question. We do not think
that the act empowering the Black Bird Creek Marsh Company to place a dam across the creek can, under all the
circumstances of the case, be considered as repugnant to the
power to regulate commerce in its dormant state, or as being
in conflict with any law passed on the subject." Notwithstanding that case has been sometimes criticized, its authority
has never been questioned in this court. On the contrary, it
was declared in Pound v. Turck, 95 U. S. 459, 463, that it had
never been overruled, but had always been sustained.

HENqNINGTON v. GEORGIA.
Opinion of the Court.

In Gilman v. Philade~phia,3 Wall. 713, 729, the question was
as to the validity of an act of the legislature of Pennsylvania,
authorizing the construction of a bridge over the Schuylkill,
"an ancient river and common highway of the State." It
appeared that the bridge, if constructed, would prevent the
passage up the river of vessels having masts, interfere with
commerce and materially injure the value of certain wharf
and dock property on the river. Congress had not passed any
act on the subject, but the contention was that such an interference with commerce on a public navigable water was in:
consistent with the Constitution of the United States. The
court said: "It must not be forgotten that bridges, which are
connecting parts of turnpikes, streets and railroads, are means
of commercial transportation, as well as navigable waters,
and that the commerce which passes over a bridge may be
much greater than would ever be transported on the water
it obstructs. It is for the municipal power to weigh the considerations which belong to the subject, and to decide which
shall be preferred, and how far either shall be made subservient to the other. The States have always exercised this
power, and from. the nature and objects of the two systems
of government they must always continue to exercise it, subject, however, in all cases to the paramount authority of Congress, whenever the power of the States shall be exerted
within the sphere of the commercial power which belongs
to the nation."
In Cooley v. Boardof Tardens, etc., 12 How. 299, 320, it was
adjudged that the mere grant to Congress of the power to
regulate commerce did not deprive the States of power to
regulate pilots on the public navigable waters of the United
States.
In Owners of Brig James Gray v. Owners of Ship John
Fraser,21 How. 184, 187, the court held to be valid two ordinances of the city of Charleston, one providing that no vessel
should be in the harbor of that city for more than twenty.
four hours, and inflicting certain penalties for every disobedience of the ordinance; the other requiring all vessels
anchored in the harbor to keep a light burning on board from

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

dark until daylight, suspended conspicuously midships, twenty
feet high from the deck. The court said: "The power of
the city authorities to pass and enforce these two ordinances
is disputed by the libellants. But regulations of this kind are
necessary and indispensable in every commercial port for the
convenience and safety of commerce. And the local authorities have a right to prescribe at what wharf a vessel may lie
and how long she may remain there, where she may unload
or take on board particular cargoes, where she may anchor
in the harbor and for what time, and what description of light
she shall display at night to warn the passing vessels of her
position, and that she is at anchor and not under sail. They
are like to the local usages of navigation in different ports,
and every vessel, from whatever part of the world she may
come, is bound to take notice of them and conform to them.
And there is nothing in the regulations referred to in the
port of Charleston which is in conflict with any law of Congress regulating commerce, or with the general admiralty
jurisdiction conferred on the courts of the United States."
In -RailroadCompany v. Fuller, 17 Wall. 560, 567, 570, the
question was as to the validity of a statute of Iowa requiring
that each railroad company should, in the month of September, annually, fix its rates for the transportation of passengers
and of freights of different kinds; that it should put up a
printed copy of such rates at all its stations and depots, and
cause a copy to remain posted during the year; and that a
failure to fulfil these requirements, or the charging of a higher
rate than was posted, should subject the offending company
to the payment of the penalty prescribed. The court said:
"In all other respects there is no interference. No other constraint is imposed. Except in these particulars the company
may exercise all its faculties as it shall deem proper. No
discrimination is made between local and interstate freights,
and no attempt is made to control the rates that may be
charged. It is only required that the rates shall be fixed,
made public and honestly adhered to. In this there is noth,ing unreasonable or onerous. The public welfare is promoted
without wrong or injury to the company. The statute was

HENNINGTON v. GEORGIA.
Opinion of the Court.

doubtless deemed to be called for by the interests of the community to be affected by it, and rests upon a solid foundation
of reason and justice. It is not, in the sense of the Constitution, in any wise a regulation of commerce." Again: "If
the requirements of the statute here in question were, as contended by the counsel for the plaintiff in error, regulations of
comme'ce, the question would arise whether, regarded in the
light of the authorities referred to, and of reason and principle, they are not regulations of such a character as to be
valid until superseded by the paramount action of Congress.
But, as we are unanimously of opinion that they are merely
police regulations, it is unnecessary to pursue the subject."
In Railroad Co. V. lumen, 95 U. S. 465, 410-473, the court,
while holding to be invalid under the Constitution of the
United States a statute of Missouri, which met at the borders
of the State a large and common subject of commerce, and
prohibited its crossing the line during two thirds of each year,
except subject to onerous conditions, which obstructed interstate commerce and worked a discrimination between the
property of citizens of one State and that of citizens of other
States, said that "the deposit in Congress of the power to
regulate foreign commerce and commerce among the States
was not a surrender of that which may properly be denominated police power;" that the power extended "to making
regulations of domestic order, morals, health and safety," but
could not be exercised over a subject confided exclusively in
Congress, nor invade the domain of the INational Government,
nor by any law of a police nature interfere with transportation into or through the State, "beyond what is absolutely
necessary for its self protection." The court, in that case, concluded with these words: "The police power of a State cannot obstruct foreign commerce or interstate commerce beyond
the vece8sity for its exercise; and under color of it objects
not within its scope cannot be secured at the expense of the
protection, afforded by the Constitution. And as its range
sometimes comes very near to the field committed by the
Constitution to Congress, it is the duty of the courts to guard
vigilantly against any needless intrusion."

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

A leading case upon the subject is that of Morgan v. Zouisiana, 118 U. S. 455, 463-465, which related to certain quarantine laws of Louisiana, the validity of which were questioned
partly upon the ground that they were inconsistent with the
power of Congress to regulate commerce among the States.
This court said: "Is the law under consideration void as a regulation of commerce? Undoubtedly it is in some sense a regulation of commerce. It arrests a vessel on a voyage which
may have been a long one. It may affect commerce among
the States when the vessel is coming from some other State of
the Union than Louisiana, and it may affect commerce with
foreign nations when the vessel arrested comes from a foreign
port. This interruption of the voyage may be for days or
weeks. It extends to the vessel, the cargo, the officers and
seamen and the passengers. In so far as it provides a rule by
which this power is exercised, it cannot be denied that it regulates commerce. We do not think it necessary to enter into
the inquiry whether, notwithstanding this, it is to be classed
among those police powers which were retained by the States
as exclusively their own, and, therefore, not ceded to Congress. For, while it may be a police power in the sense that
all provisions for the health, comfort and security of the citizens are police regulations, and an exercise of the police power,
it has been said more than once in this court that, even where
such powers are so exercised as to come within the domain of
Federal authority as defined by the Constitution, the latter
must prevail. Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheat. 1, 210; Henderson v. The Mayor, 92 U. S.259, 272; New Orleans Gas Co.
v. LouisianaLight Co., 115 U. S. 650, 661. But it may be
conceded that whenever Congress shall undertake to provide
for the commercial cities of the United States a general system
of quarantine, or shall confide the execution of the details of
such a system. to a National Board of Health, or to local
boards, as may be found expedient, all state laws on the subject will be abrogated, at least so far as the two are inconsistent. But, until this is done,. the laws of the State on the
subject are valid." Again: "Quarantine laws belong to that
class of state legislation which, whether passed with intent to

HENNINGTON v. GEORGIA.
Opinion of the Court.

regulate commerce or not, must be admitted to have that effect,
and which are valid until displaced or contravened by some
legislation of Congress."
Upon the subject of legislation enacted under the police
power of a State, and which, although affecting more or less
commerce among the States, was adjudged to be valid, until
displaced by some act of Congress, the case of Smith v. Alabama, 124 U. S. 465, 474, 479, 482, is instructive. A statute
of Alabama made it unlawful for an engineer on a railroad
train in that State to operate an engine upon the main line of
the road used for the transportation of passengers or freight,
without first undergoing an examination and obtaining a
license from a State Board of Examiners. The point was
made that the statute, in its application to engineers on interstate trains, was a regulation of commerce among the States,
and repugnant to the Constitution. This court referred to and
reaffirmed the principle announced in Sherlock v. Alling, 93
U. S.99, 102, where it was said: "In conferring upon Congress the regulation of commerce, it was never intended to cut
the States off from legislating on all subjects relating to the
health, life and safety of their citizens, though the legislation
might indirectly affect the commerce of the country. Legislation, in a variety of ways, may affect commerce and persons
engaged in it without constituting a regulation of it within
the meaning of the Constitution." Referring to the fact that
Congress had prescribed the qualifications for pilots and engineers of steam vessels engaged in the coasting trade and navigating the inland waters of the United States, while engaged

in commerce among the States, the court, in Smith v. Alabama, said that the power of Congress "might, with equal
authority, be exercised in prescribing the qualifications for
locomotive engineers employed by railroad companies engaged
inthe transportation of passengers and goods among the States,
and .in that case would supersede any conflicting provisions on
the same subject made by local authority. But the provisions
on the subject contained in the statute of Alabama under consideration are not regulations of interstate commerce. It is a
misnomer to call them such. Considered in themselves they

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

are parts of that body of the local laws which, as we have
already seen, properly governs the relation between carriers
of passengers and merchandise and the public who employ
them, which are not displaced until they come in conflict with
express enactments of Congress in the exercise of its power
over commerce, and which, until so displaced, according to the
evident intention of Congress, remain as the law governing
carriers in the discharge of their obligations, whether engaged
in the purely internal commerce of the State or in commerce
among the States. No objection to the statute, as an impediment on the free transaction of commerce among the States,
can be found in any of its special provisions." Again: "We
find, therefore, first, that the statute of Alabama, the validity
of which is under consideration, is not, considered in its own
nature, a regulation of interstate commerce, even when applied
as in the case under consideration; secondly, that it is properly
an act of legislation within the scope of the admitted power
reserved to the State to regulate the relative rights and duties
of persons being and acting within its territorial jurisdiction,
intended to operate so as to secure for the public safety of persons and property; and, thirdly, that, so far as it affects transactions of commerce among the States, it does so indirectly,
incidentally and remotely, and not so as to burden or impede
th4m, and, in the particulars in which it touches those transactions at all, it is not in conflict with any express enactment
-of Congress on the subject, nor contrary to any intention of
Congress to be presumed from its silence."
So in NTashville etc. Railway v. Alabama, 128 U. S.96, 99,
-101, which involved the validity of a state enactment which,
for the protection of the travelling public, declared any one
disqualified from serving on railroad lines within the State
who had color blindness and defective vision, and which statute was equally applicable to domestic and interstate railroad
trains, the court said: "It is conceded that the power of Congress to regulate interstate commerce is plenary; that, as
incident to it, Congress may legislate as to the qualifications,
duties and liabilities of employ~s and others on railway trains
engaged in that commerce; and that such legislation will

HENNINGTON v. GEORGIA.
Opinion of the Court.

supersede any state action on the subject. But until such
legislation is had, it is clearly within the competency of
the States to provide against accidents on trains whilst
within their limits. Indeed, it is a principle fully recognized
by decisions of state and Federal courts that wherever there
is any business in which, either from the products created or
the instrumentalities used, there is danger to life or property,
it is not only within the power of the States, but it is among
their plain duties, to make provision against accidents likely
to follow in such business, so that the dangers attending it
may be guarded against so far as is practicable." Referring
to some observations made in Smith v. Alabama, supra,the
court said: "The same observations may be made with respect to the provisions of the state law for the examination
of parties to be employed on railways with respect to their
powers of vision. Such legislation is not directed against
commerce, and only affects it incidentally, and therefore cannot be called, within the meaning of the Constitution, a regulation of commerce."
These authorities make it clear that the legislative enactments of the States, passed under their admitted police powers,
and having a real relation to the domestic peace,.order, health
and safety of their people, but which, by their necessary
operation, affect to some extent, or for a limited time, the
conduct of commerce among the States, are yet not invalid
by force alone of the grant of power to Congress to regulate
such commerce; and, if not obnoxious to some other constitutional provision or destructive of some right secured by the
fundamental law, are to be respected in the courts of the
Union until they are superseded and displaced by some act of
Congress passed in execution of the power granted to it by
the Constitution. Local laws of the character mentioned have
their source in the powers which the States reserved and
never surrendered to Congress, of providing for the public
health, the public morals and the public safety, and are not,
within the meaning of the Constitution, and considered in
their own nature, regulations o interstate commerce simply
because, for a limited time or to a limited extent, they cover

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Dissenting Opinion: Chief Justice, White, J.

the field accupied by those engaged in such commerce. The
statute of Georgia is not directed against interstate commerce.
It establishes a rule of civil conduct applicable alike to all
freight trains, domestic as well as interstate. It applies to
the transportation of interstate freight the same rule precisely
that it applies to the transportation of domestic freight. And
it places the business of transporting freight in the same category as all other secular business. It simply declares that,
on and during the day fixed by law as a day of rest for all
the people within the limits of the State from toil and labor
incident to their callings, the transportation of freight shall
be suspended.
We are of opinion that such a law, although in a limited
degree affecting interstate commerce, is not for that reason
a needless intrusion upon the domain of Federal jurisdiction,
nor strictly a regulation of interstate commerce, but, considered in its own nature, is an ordinary police regulation designed to secure the well-being and to promote the general
welfare of the people within the State by which it was established, and, therefore, not invalid by force alone of the Constitution of the United States.
Affirmed.
The judgment is
The CHIEF JUSTICE, with whom concurred
WMTE,

X,R.

JusTio

dissenting:

Intercourse and trade between the States by means of railroads passing through several States, is a matter national in its
character and admitting of uniform regulation. The power
of Congress to regulate it is exclusive and under the Constitution it is free and untrammelled except as Congress otherwise
provides. This statute in requiring the suspension of interstate commerce for one day in the week amounts to a regulation
of that commerce, and is invalid because the power of Congress
in that regard is exclusive. But it is said that the act is not
a regulation of commerce but a mere regulation of police, and
that the so called police power of a State is plenary. The
result, however, is the same. When a power of a State and

HUNTINGTON v. SA10NDERS.
Opinion of the Court.

a power of the General Government come into collision, the
former must give way; and as the freedom of interstate commerce is secured by the Constitution, except as Congress shall
limit it, the act is void because in violation of that freedom.
MR. JUsTICE BREWER did not hear the argument in this case,
and took no part in its decision.

HUNTINGTON v. SAUNDERS.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEAlS FOR THE FIRST
CIRCUIT.
No. 928. Submitted May 4, 1890.-Decided May 25,1696.

The objections of a creditor to the discharge of a bankrupt being dismissed
for want of prosecution, the creditor flied his petition for revision in the
Circuit Court of the United States. Issues were made up and the case heard.
The Circuit Court held that the petition must be dismissed and an order
to that effect was entered. Thereupon the creditor appealed to the Circuit Court of Appeals, which court dismissed the appeal for want of
jurisdiction. Appeal was taken to this court. Held, that this court had
jurisdiction of such an appeal, when it appeared affirmatively that the
amount in controversy exceeded $1000, besides costs, which did not appear
in this case.

MOTION to dismiss.

The case is stated in the opinion.
XM. William B. Duranut for the motion.
.Mr. Banrodft GherardiDavie opposing.
MR. CIErF JUSTICE FuLLER

delivered the opinion of the

court.
William A. Saunders was adjudicated bankrupt by the
District Court of the United States for the District of Massachusetts, October 1, 1875, on petition of creditors filed July
13, 1875. Saunders applied for a discharge by petition filed

