BACON v. TEXAS.'
Syllabus.

It follows that the decree below must be
Reversed and the cause remanded, with directions to
enter a decree in favor of complainant, with cost,, perpetually enjoining the defendant, his agents, servants and
reprewentatives,from marking upon sewing machines made
or sold by him, or upon any plate or device connected there-

with or attached thereto, the word "iSinger," or words or
Ietterm equivalent thereto, without clearly and unmistakably

specifying in connection therewith that such machines are
the product of the defendant or other manufacturer,and
not the manufacture of the Singer Manufacturing Company; and the defendant must be ordered to account as
to any profits which may have been realized by him, because of the wrongful acts by him committed.

BACON v. TEXAS.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF CIVIL APPEALS FOR THE SECOND SUPREME
JUDICIAL DISTRICT OF THE STATE OF TEXAS.
No. 296. Argued May 6, 7, 1896.-Decded May18, 1896.
In this case application was made by the defendants below, after judgment,
to the Supreme Court of Texas for a writ of error to the Court of Civil
Appeals for the second district for the purpose of reviewing the judgment of that court, and the application was denied. Held, that this
court has jurisdiction to reexamine the judgment on writ of error to
the Court of Civil Appeals.
In case of a change of phraseology in an article in a state constitution, it Is
for the state courts to determine whether the change calls for a change
of construction.
Where there are two grounds for the judgment of a state court, one only
of which involves a Federal question, and the other is broad enough to
maintain a judgment sought to be reviewed, this court will not look into
the Federal question.
When a state courtbas based Its decision on a local or state question, and
this court In consequence finds it unnecessary to decide a Federal
question raised by the record, the logical course is to dismiss the writ of
error.

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Statement of the Case.

THE State of Texas commenced this action against the defendants, Bacon, Graves and Gibbs, in the District Court of
the county of Mitchell, in the State of Texas, for the purpose
of recovering the possession of a large amount of landnearly 300,000 acres-which it was alleged the defendants
had unlawfully entered upon and dispossessed plaintiff from,
and the possession of which they continued to withhold from
plaintiff, thu plaintiff being the owner in fee simple of such
land at the time when the defendants dispossessed the State
therefrom. Plaintiff also sought to recover damages for the
use and occupation of such lands, and judgment was demanded
for the possession of the land and for damages and for costs of
the suit and for general relief.
The answer of the defendants set up several grounds for
specially excepting to the plaintiff's petition, upon all of which
the defendants prayed the judgment of the court. Joined
with the special exceptions the defendants answered and
stated that if the defendants' demurrer and special exceptions
should be overruled, then they denied each and every allegation in plaintiff's petition contained. They then alleged that
they were citizens of the State of Texas and had been at the
time of the passage of the act of July 14, 1879, and the act
amendatory thereof passed on the 11th day of March, 1881,
in relation to the sale of public lands belonging to the State
of Texas; and they alleged that they had performed all the
requirements spoken of and provided for in those acts for the
purpose of purchasing a portion of the public lands of the State,
and that by the performance of such conditions they had purchased the lands in question, and had duly tendered payment
therefor to the proper officer which had been refused, and
that subsequently they had again tendered payment and that
the money had been received, but the plaintiff had refused to
convey the title to the defendants as it was under legal obligations to do. They further alleged that having in all respects
fully complied with the provisions of the law in respect to the
purchase of the lands in question, their rights thereto became
and were vested, and the act of the legislature subsequent
thereto, passed January 22, 1883, to repeal the law under

BACON v. TEXAS.
Statement of the Case.

which the sales were made, was under article II, section 10,
subdivision 1 of the Constitution of the United States, null
and void as affecting defendants' vested rights. They prayed
for judgment, that the plaintiff take nothing by its suit, and
that the defendants have and recover from and of the plaintiff
the lands as herein claimed by them, and for further relief.
The State filed its reply to the defendants' answer, and
after specially excepting to certain of the allegations of the
answer as insufficient, it alleged that the defendants were not
entitled or authorized to purchase the lands, and had not complied with the law in reference thereto in any particular, and
that if the defendants had tendered the treasurer of the State
the money for the lands, as alleged, the treasurer properly
refused and declined to receive the same, for that the defendants had not purchased the same from the plaintiff by complying fully with any existing law authorizing the purchase or
sale thereof, and that if the defendants or any of them ever
paid to the treasurer in January, 1891, the sum of money in
said answer stated, the treasurer was not authorized by law to
receive it, and this defendants well knew, and that the payment was made after full and explicit notice to defendants
that plaintiff repudiated and would vigorously contest the
claim of the defendants to said lands, and the defendants paid
the same at their peril. The court overruled the defendants'
exceptions to the plaintiff's petition and the case came on for
trial.
The questions sought to be raised herein by the plaintiffs in
error are stated by them to arise under the acts of the State
of Texas above mentioned, the one known as chapter 52 of
the laws of 1879, and entitled "An act to provide for the sale
of a portion of the unappropriated public lands of the State
of Texas and the investment of the proceeds of such sale,"
which act was approved July 14,1879, and the other known
as chapter 3 of the laws of the same State, passed in 1883,
and entitled "An act to withdraw the public lands of the
State of Texas from sale," approved January 22, 1883. The
act of 1881, amending that of 1879, is immaterial to the questions herein arising.
VOL. cLx-14

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Statement of the Case.

Section 1 of the act of 1819 provided for the sale of all the
vacant and unappropriated land of the State of Texas in certain named counties thereof. Section 2 provided that any
person, firm or corporation desiring to purchase any of the
unappropriated lands therein set apart and reserved for sale
might do so by causing the tract or tracts which such person,
firm or corporation desired to purchase to be surveyed by the
authorized public surveyor of the county or district in which
said land was situated. By section 3 it was made the duty
of the surveyor, to whom application was made by responsible parties, to survey the lands designated in the application
within three months from the date thereof, and within sixty
days after said survey to certify to, record and map the fieldnotes of said survey, and within said sixty days to return to
and file the same in the general land office, as required by
law in other cases. Section 5 provided that within sixty days
after the return to and filing in the general land office of
the surveyor's certificate, map and field-notes of the land
desired to be purchased, it should be the right of the person,
firm or corporation who had had the same surveyed to pay
or cause to be paid into the treasury of the State the purchase
money therefor, at the rate of fifty cents per acre, and upon
the presentation to the commissioner of the general land office
of the receipt of the state treasurer for such purchase money,
the commissioner was bound to issue to said person, firm or
corporation a patent for the tract or tracts of land so surveyed
and paid for.
By section 1, chapter 3, of the laws of 1883, it was enacted
"that all the public lands heretofore authorized to be sold
under an act entitled 'An act to provide for the sale of the
unappropriated public lands of the State of Texas and the
investment of the proceeds of such sale,' approved July 14,
1879, be, and the same are hereby, withdrawn from sale."
The proviso contained in the section is immaterial. Prior to
the adoption of the Revised Statutes of Texas the manner in
which surveys of the public domain were to be made had
been provided for by law. It was provided that "the courses
of the line shall be determined by the magnetic needle, and

BACON v. TEXAS.
Statement of the Case.

care shall be taken to determine its variations from the pole
in the district where the surveys are made. Each survey
shall be made with great caution, with metallic chains made
for the purpose, and care shall be taken that the place of
beginning of the survey of each parcel of land be established
with certainty, taking the bearing and distance of two permanent objects at least." This was long prior to the year 1879.
The Revised Statutes of Texas were passed in 1879 and took
effect in September of that year, and by article 3908 it was
provided "the field-notes of each survey shall state (1) the
county or land district in which the land is situated; (2) the
certificate or other authority under or by virtue of which it is
made, giving a true description of same by numbers, date,
where and when issued, name of original grantee and quantity; (3) the land by proper field-notes, with the necessary
calls and connections for identification (observing the Spanish
measurement for vara); (4) a diagram of the survey; (5) the
variation at which the running was made; (6) it shall show
the names of the chain-carriers; (7) it shall be dated and
signed by the surveyor; (8) the correctness of the survey and
that it was made according to law shall be certified to officially
by the surveyor who made the same, and also that such survey was actually made in the field, and that the field-notes
have been duly recorded, giving book and page; (9) when the
survey has been made by a deputy the county or district surveyor shall certify officially that he has examined the fieldnotes, has found them correct, and that they are duly recorded, giving the book and page of the record."
The case came on for trial in the District Court of Mitchell
County in November, 1891. The following among other facts
were found by the court: On December 1, 1882, Bacon and
Graves made application to the surveyor of the Palo Pinto
land district, as such surveyor, to purchase the land in controversy under the above mentioned act of 1879, as amended
March 11, 1881, which application was received and recorded
by the surveyor on the first above named date. Bacon and
Graves paid the fees for filing the field-notes in the general
land office entirely within the time required by law. By the

OCTOBER TERI,

1895.

Statement of the Case.

records of the land office the lands in question appeared to
have been surveyed at different times, and the field-notes
recorded in the surveyor's office in some instances, but not
in all. The surveyor of the Palo Pinto land district certified
to the respective surveys on the dates the surveys purport to
have made. None of the land included in this suit has ever
been patented by the State under the Bacon and Graves purchase, and on the 26th of May, 1890, Bacon and Graves transferred by deed of special warranty 579 sections of land to
C. C. Gibbs, who holds the same in trust for E. M. Bacon,
E. G. Graves and others.
It was further found as a matter of fact "that none of the
land in suit was actually surveyed upon the ground by the
deputy surveyor who purported to have done so, but they
merely copied in the office of the surveyor of the Palo Pinto
land district the field-notes of the Elgin survey." That survey was made in July, 1873, for the Houston and Texas Central Railway Company, and the field-notes of such survey
were returned to the surveyor's office some time in 1873, and
were filed in the general land office November 20 and 26,
1873. These field-notes were "adopted by the surveyor of
the Palo Pinto land district and his deputies in making out
the field-notes of the land applied to be purchased by Bacon
and Graves." The land had been actually surveyed on the
ground by Elgin in the manner in which it had been customary for surveyors in Texas to survey large bodies of land,
by running the outside boundary lines of the blocks, or parts
of them, putting up permanent landmarks, and leaving the
interior lines without running. These blocks, in writing up
the field-notes, were divided into 640 acre, surveys, and the
interior surveys were made without actually running the
lines, and Elgin did not run all the lines of any section,
unless, as he says, it was done by accident. It had been
found by deputy surveyors prior to the adoption of the fieldnotes for Bacon and Graves that the lines run and ascertained
by the Elgin survey were as correct as any work of that character in that part of the state, and the deputy surveyors were
satisfied as to their substantial accuracy. The deputy survey-

BACON v. TEXAS.
Statement of the Case.

ors were deputies under Joel McKee from December, 1882, to
March, 1883, and McKee was the surveyor of the Palo Pinto
district in which the land in question lay.
On May 16, 1883, the defendants tendered to the treasurer
of the State $80,640, and on May 19, 1883, they tendered him
the further sum of $104,640, in payment for these lands.
These tenders were refused. In January, 1891, Bacon and
Graves paid the treasurer $149,320 for said lands, which was
received by him "under protest."
The court as conclusions of law found: (1) That Bacon
and Graves were not responsible parties, within the meaning
of the statute, at the time they applied to purchase this land
and could not purchase under the law; (2) that they did not
comply with the law by having the lands surveyed as was required by law, and, therefore, could not purchase it; (3) the
survey as adopted was not made in accordance with law-is
incorrect, totally so -in having a greater frontage on permanent water than is permitted under the acts of 1879 and 1881;
(4) Bacon and Graves have never paid or offered to pay for
said land until long after the expiration of the time allowed
and required by law. The purported surveys of many of the
sections of land for which they tendered payment on May 19,
1883, were made after the 50 cent act was repealed, and Bacon
and Graves did not separate or offer to separate in their tender
the surveys made before the repeal from those made after,
and there was consequently no legal tender; (5) at the time
Graves entered into an agreement with Bacon to purchase
these -lands he was an employ6 of the general land office, and
his actions were against the civil and criminal laws of the
State; (6) that the State was not bound to return the money
paid in January, 1891, to entitle it to judgment for the land.
Judgment for the recovery of the lands was duly entered
and the defendants appealed from that judgment to the Supreme Court of Texas, which court duly ordered the same to
be transferred to the Court of Civil Appeals for the Second
Judicial District, before which the case was heard on appeal.
That court adopted the findings of fact filed by the court
below, excepting it set aside the finding that the defendants

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Statement of the Case.

were not responsible parties, and so could not purchase any
land.
The court also gave an explanation as to the finding of the
trial court that the money was received by the state treasurer
under protest," such explanation being that "by the word
'protest' as used in the finding is meant that the treasurer of
the State had several times refused to accept this money, and
at the time he received it in January, 1891, the parties paying
fully understood that the State would contest their claim to
the land, and the treasurer did not receive the money as a
legal payment therefor."
After argument the Court of Civil Appeals in all things
affirmed the judgment of the court below. The appellants
duly asked for a rehearing for reasons assigned by them in
their amended motion therefor. The motion was denied and
judgment duly entered affirming in all things the judgment
against the defendants for the recovery of the lands in question. The defendants then presented a petition to the Supreme Court of the State of Texas for the allowance of a writ
of error to enable that court to review the judgment of the
Court of Civil Appeals. The application for this writ of error
was refused by the Supreme Court, and an order refusing it
was sent to the clerk of the Court of Civil Appeals pursuant
to a rule of the Supreme Court.
The assignments of errors by the defendants on their appeal
to the Court of Civil Appeals contain an assignment of error
in that they had acquired a vested right to the lands by the
survey thereof as made for them, under the act of 1879, prior
to the repeal of that act by the repealing act of 1883, and
which right could not be affected by such repeal. The Court
of Civil Appeals held that there was no contract between the
parties because of tle failure of the defendants to have such
surveys made as were called for under the act of 1879.
The assignment of errors filed on the allowance of the present writ of error contains among other grounds of error the
failure of the court to hold that the act of the legislature of
Texas, approved January 22, 1883, was repugnant to the Constitution of the United States, in that said act impaired the

BACON v. TEXAS.
Opinion of the Court.

obligation or validity of the contract for the purchase of said
lands between the State of Texas and said appellants arising
under and created by said acts of the legislature of Texas,
approved July 14, 1879, and March 11, 1881.
rfr.J. Hubley Ashton, (with whom was Mr. Thoma -D.
Cobb8 on the brief,) for Gibbs, trustee, plaintiff in error.
Mr. M. .. Crane, Attorney General of the State of Texas,
for defendant in error.
.Mr. William .M. Walton (with whom were M'. Charles W.
Ogden and M.. John W. .Maddox on the brief,) for Bacon and
Graves, plaintiffs in error.
M . JUSTIcE

P.ECKHAm,

after stating the facts, delivered the

opinion of the court.
The first question which arises in this case is in regard to
our jurisdiction to review the judgment of the Court of Civil
Appeals of the State of Texas. Some question was made in
regard to the regularity and sufficiency of the writ of error
from this court to the Court of Civil Appeals, as that court is
not the highest court in the State. We think, however, the
criticism is not well founded. So far as this case is concerned
that court is the highest court of the State in which a decision
in this suit could be had. An application was made to the
Supreme Court of the State of Texas for a writ of error to
the Court of Civil Appeals for the. Second District by the
defendants in the court below after judgment in the latter
court, for the purpose of reviewing the judgment of that
court, but the Supreme Court denied the application and thus
prevented by its action a review by it of the judgment of the
Court of Civil Appeals. The judgment of that court has,
therefore, become the judgment of the highest court of the
State in which a decision in the suit could be had, and this
court may, so far as this point is concerned, refxamine the
same on writ of error under the provisions of section 709,

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

Revised Statutes of the United States.

Gregory v. .MclVeigh,

23 Wall. 294; Fisher v. Perkins, 122 U. S. 522; Stanley v.
Schwalby, 162 U. S. 255.
Assuming that the record is properly brought here by virtue
of the writ of error granted by this court, the question arises
as to what, if any, jurisdiction we have to review the judgment of the state court. Our only right to review it depends
upon whether there is a Federal question in the record, which
has been decided against the plaintiffs in error. Rev. Stat.
ยง 709.
Where the Federal question upon which the jurisdiction of
this court is based grows out of an alleged impairment of the
obligation of a contract, it is now definitely settled that the
contract can only be impaired within the meaning of this
clause in the Constitution, and so as to give this court jurisdiction on writ of error to a state court, by some subsequent
statute of the State which has been upheld or effect given
it by the state court. Lehigh Water Co. v. Easton, 121 U. S.
388; New Orleans Water Works Co. v. Louisiana Sugar
Refining Co., 125 U. S. 18; Central Land Co. v. Laidley, 159
U. S. 103, 109. As stated in the case reported in 125 U. S.,
supra, it is not necessary that the law of a State, in order
to come within this constitutional prohibition, should be either
in the form of a statute enacted by the legislature in the
ordinary course of legislation, or in the form of a constitution
established by the people of the State as their fundamental
law. A by-law or ordinance of a municipal corporation may
be such an exercise of legislative power delegated by the legislature to the corporation .as a political subdivision of the State,
having all the force of law within the limits of the municipality, that it may properly be considered as a law within
the meaning of this article of the Constitution of the United
States.
If the judgment of the State court gives no effect to the
subsequent law of the State, and the State court decides the
case upon grounds independent of that law, a case is not made
for review by this court upon any ground of the impairment
of a contract. The above cited cases announce this principle.

BACON v. TEXAS.
Opinion of the Court.

The case of Wilmington & Weldon Railroad v. Alsbrook,
146 U. S. 279, decides nothing that is repugnant to it. In
that case the jurisdiction of this court was questioned on the
ground that the contract of exemption mentioned in the act
of 1834 was acknowledged to be valid by the Supreme Court
of lNorth Carolina, and it simply denied that particular property was embraced by its terms, and as a consequence it was
claimed that the decision did not involve a Federal question.
To which this court replied, speaking by Mr. Chief Justice
Fuller, as follows: "In arriving at this conclusion, however,
the state court gave effect to the revenue law of 1891, and
held that the contract did not confer the right of exemption
from its operation. If it did, its obligation was impaired by
the subsequent law, and as the inquiry, whether it did or not,
was necessarily directly passed upon, we are of opinion that
the writ of error was properly allowed."
So in .Mobile & Okio Railroad v. Tenvnemee, 153 U. S. 486.
In that case it was contended that this court had no jurisdiction to review the judgment of the Supreme Court of Tennessee, because the decision of that court proceeded upon the
ground that there was no contract in existence between the
railroad company and the State to be impaired, and that the
supposed contract was in violation of the state constitution of
1834, and hence not within the power of the legislature to
make. In truth, however, the court in its decree gave effect
to the subsequent statute of Tennessee, which it was claimed
impaired the obligation of the contract entered into between
the State and the railroad company, and under those circumstances this court exercised jurisdiction to review the decision
of the state court on the question as to whether there was a
contract or not, and as to the meaning of the contract if there
were one, and whether it had been impaired by the subsequent
legislation to which effect had been given.
Both these cases have been cited by the counsel for plaintiffs in error as authorities for the jurisdiction of the court in
this case. Inasmuch as the judgments of the state courts, in
both cases, gave effect to the later statutes, they are governed
by the principle set forth in 125 and 159 U. S., supra. It

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

becomes necessary therefore in the examination of this case to
inquire whether the Federal question has been raised in the
courts of the State, and, if so, whether the judgment of the
state court is founded upon or in any manner gives the slightest effect to the subsequent act of 1883.
The statement of facts already given shows that the only
allusion made to the act of 1883 in the pleadings was made
by the defendants. No claim was made by the plaintiff, the
State of Texas, by either of its pleadings of any right accruing to it by virtue or under the provisions of the last named
act. The trial court in its findings sets forth at length and in
detail the various times in which the surveys were made and
the field-notes filed of the lands in question, and then states
that none of the land in suit was actually surveyed upon the
ground by the deputy surveyors who purported to have done
so, but they merely copied in the office of the surveyor of the
Palo Pinto land district the field-notes of the Elgin survey.
What that Elgin survey was is also set forth in the foregoing
statement, and upon these facts the court found as a conclusion
of law that the defendants did not comply with the law by
having the land surveyed as was required by it, and therefore
could not purchase such land. Assuming there was a Federal
question properly raised, we also find in the record a broad
and comprehensive holding that the defendants never complied with the act of 1879, and never made the surveys necessary to be made under the law of Texas in order to vest them
with any rights whatsoever under that act. This ground of
judgment is founded upon a matter of state law and makes
no reference whatever to any subsequent act of the legislature,
and in no way upholds that act or treats it as of the least force
or virtue any more than if the act had never been passed. If
it never had been passed, and the defendants had made this
same claim of having a contract for the purchase of the lands
by reason of the things done under the act of 1879, and the
court had decided upon their claim in the same way it has
done in this case, it is beyond question that this court would
have no jurisdiction to review that decision of the state court
however erroneous it might be regarded by us.

BACON v. TEXAS.
Opinion of the Court.

The case is not altered by the fact that the State has passed
an act which the defendants assert impairs the obligation of
their contract, so long as the court, in deciding their case,
holds that they never had a contract because they never had
complied with the provisions of the original statute, and so
long as it gives judgment wholly without reference to the
subsequent act, and without upholding or in any manner
giving effect to any provision thereof.
Whether the statute of 1879 permitted a survey to be
adopted from a survey which had previously been made in
the field, or whether it did not, was a case of construction
of a state statute by the state court. It is not one of those
cases where this court will construe the meaning of a state
statute for itself. This court, even on writ of error to a state
court, will construe for itself the meaning of a statute as affecting an alleged contract where it is claimed that a subsequent statute passed by the State has impaired the obligations
of the contract as claimed by the party, and where such
subsequent statute has by the judgment of the state court
in some way been brought into play and effect been given
to some or all of its provisions. In such a case this court
construes the contract in order to determine whether the
later statute impairs its obligation. Louisville Gas Co. v.
Citizem' Gas Co., 115 U. S. 683, 697. This is not such a case.
The later statute is not given effect to by the judgment of the
court.
The State of Texas by the act of 1883 withdrew its public
lands from sale. The prior act of 1879 had offered them for
sale. Whether the act of 1883 withdrew them or not could
have no bearing upon the question whether these defendants
had complied with the act of 1879 in relation to having the
surveys made of the lands which they applied to purchase.
If the lands had not been withdrawn, the parties' rights in
them would depend upon whether they had been surveyed,
and if they had not, they had no right to them. Whether
they had or had not complied with the act of 1879 was not
a Federal question. If the court had decided that the survey actually made was a sufficient compliance with the act,

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

but that defendants obtained no vested rights in the land by
virtue of such survey, and that the act of 1883 was effectual
in withdrawing such lands from market, that decision would
have been reviewable here, and in that case this court would
determine for itself what rights the parties obtained under the
act of 1879, and whether by what they had done they bad
obtained any rights which could not be unfavorably affected
by the act of 1883.
It is, however, urged that the Texas courts for many years
bad construed the acts passed by the State relating to surveys
of its public lands as permitting what are termed "adoptive
.surveys," i.e., surveys adopted from those which had once
been made in the field, and that the act of 1879 in simply
providing for surveys of lands for which applications to pur-chase might be made left it to the general law, which provided the details and manner of carrying out such survey.
The construction of the general law which had been thus
given by the courts upon the question of what was a sufficient
survey, it is claimed, had become a rule of property which
parties were entitled to rely upon, and which no court could
overturn, and if it did so, a contract was impaired, and the
judgment was reviewable by this court. The proposition cannot be maintained as a basis for giving this court jurisdiction
,upon writ of error to the state court. It ignores the limits to
our jurisdiction in this regard, which, as has been seen, is confined to legislation which impairs the obligation of a contract.
125 and 159 U. S., supra.
The argument involves the claim that jurisdiction exists in
this court to review a judgment of a state court on writ of
error when such jurisdiction is based upon an alleged impairment of a contract by reason of the alteration by a state court
of a construction theretofore given by it to such contract or to
a particular statute or series of statutes in existence when the
contract was entered into. Such a foundation for our jurisdiction does not exist.
It has been held that where a state court has decided in a
series of decisions that its legislature had the power to permit
municipalities to issue bonds to pay their subscriptions to rail-

BACON v. TEXAS.
Opinion of the Court.

road companies, and such bonds had been issued accordingly,
if in such event suit were brought on the bonds in a United
States court, that court would not follow the decision of the
state court rendered after the issuing of the bonds and holding
that the legislature had no power to permit a municipality to
issue them, and that they were therefore void. Such are the
cases of Gelpoke v. City of-Dubuque, 1 Wall. 175, and Douglama

v. County of Pike, 101 U. S. 677. In cases of that nature there
is room for the principle laid down that the construction of a.
statute and admission as to its validity made by the highest
court of a State prior to the issuing of any obligations based
upon the statute, enters into and forms a part of the contract
and will be given effect to by this court as against a subsequent
changing of decision by the state court by which such legislation might be held to be invalid. But effect is given to it by
this court only on appeal from a judgment of a United States
court and not from that of a state court. This court
has no jurisdiction to review a judgment of a state court
made under precisely the same circumstances, although such
state court thereby decided that the state legislation was
void which it had prior thereto held to be valid. It has no
such jurisdiction, because of the absence of any legislation
subsequent to the issuing of the bonds which had been given
effect to by the state court. In other words, we have no
jurisdiction, because a state court changes its views in regard
to the proper construction of its state statute, although the
effect of such judgment may be to impair the value of what
the state court had before that held to be a valid contract.
When a case is brought in the United States court, comity
generally requires of this court that in matters relating to
the proper construction of the laws and constitution of its
own State, this court should follow the decisions of the state
court; yet in exceptional cases, such as Gelpoke and other,
8upra, it is seen that this court has refused to be bound by
such rule, and has refused to follow the later decisions of the
state court. A writ of error has been dismissed in this court,
Railroad Company v. .cClure, 10 Wall. 511, where the judgment sought to be reviewed was that of a state court, holding

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

that certain bonds were void upon precisely the same facts that
this court in the Gepcke case held were valid. There was no
subsequent legislative act impairing their obligation, and hence
this court had no jurisdiction to review the judgment of the
state court.
Considerable stress has been laid upon the case of Loui8iana
v. Pisbury,105 U. S. 278, as an authority for the proposition
that this court has jurisdiction even though the judgment of
the state court gives no effect to the subsequent state legislation, and also for the proposition that the obligation of a
contract may be impaired by a change in the construction
given to it by the courts of a State, and that a Federal question under the contract impairment clause of the Constitution
is thus presented which may be reviewed in this court. It is
stated that the Supreme Court of Louisiana in that case confined its decision to the unconstitutionality of the act of 1852,
under which the bonds were issued, and that its judgment
proceeded wholly without reference to the subsequent acts
of the legislature which were claimed to impair the obligations of the contract based upon the act of 1852; and it is
argued that unless a Federal question were presented, even
where no effect was given to subsequent legislation, or by the
fact that the state court, in holding the act of 1852 unconstitutional, varied from its former decisions in that regard and
thereby impaired the obligation of a contract, this court would
have had no jurisdiction to hear and decide the case as it did.
A portion of the opinion of one of the judges of the Supreme
Court of Louisiana is quoted, in which it is stated that they
find it unnecessary to pass upon the subsequent statute which
was alleged to have impaired the contract of 1852, because
the views which had already been expressed declaring the
act of 1852, under which the bonds were issued, unconstitutional, were sufficient to dispose of the case. An examination
of the record in' that case shows neither proposition for which
it is cited is therein decided.
When the case was brought to this court by writ of error,
a motion was made to dismiss the writ on the ground that the
case was decided by the state court upon a question of state

BACON v. TEXAS.
Opinion of the Court.

law and without reference to any statute which plaintiffs in
error alleged impaired their contract. The decision of the
motion was postponed to the argument upon the merits, and
upon that argument counsel for plaintiffs in error, clearly
recognizing the necessity they were under of showing that
the state court did give effect to the subsequent legislation
in order to show the existence of a Federal question, claimed
that it appeared in that record that no judgment could have
been given for the defendant in error in the court below without necessarily giving effect to some of the subsequent legislation, and they claimed that an examination of the whole
record would show such fact, notwithstanding the statement
contained in one of the opinions of the state court, already
alluded to. They also alleged there was no question of state
law passed on by the court below sufficiently broad to have
sustained the decision without passing on this Federal question. The argument in favor of the jurisdiction, as thus
placed by the counsel for the plaintiffs in error, seems to
have been sufficient to convince the court, for in its opinion
the question of jurisdiction is not adverted to in any way and
is assumed to exist. Of course, having jurisdiction to review
the state court in regard to this Federal question, it then became proper for this court to determine for itself what was
the contract and whether it had been impaired by any subsequent legislation of the State. In determining what the
contract was, the opinion cites many cases in the state court
which had been decided regarding the constitution of that
State of 1845, which was in existence at the time the act of
1852 was passed; and it was stated that the exposition made
by the courts of the State in regard to its constitution or
laws in existence at the time when the obligations were
issued under them was to be treated as a part of the contract and formed a basis for determining what that contract
was.
There is no decision in the case which gives the least support to the proposition that jurisdiction exists in this court. to
review on writ of error to a state court, its holding as to what
the contract was, simply because it had changed its construe-

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

tion thereof, nor that the obligation of a contract may be impaired within the contract clause of the Federal Constitution,
unless there has been some subsequent act of the legislative
branch of the government to which effect has been given by
the judgment of the state court. The case may, therefore,
be regarded as in entire harmony with the later cases on the
subject mentioned in 125 and 159 U. S., supra. The opinion
proceeds upon the assumption that effect had been given to
this subsequent legislation, and it proves that such legislation
impaired the contract as construed here.
This case, however, is not in its facts within the claim made
by the counsel for the plaintiffs in error. In this case there
has in truth been no change in the construction of the state
statute regarding what constitutes a sufficient survey under
its provisions as claimed by counsel. The sales act of 1879
provided that surveys should be made, and at that time it is
said a statute was in force which provided for making surveys
of public lands as follows:
"1SEc. 19. The surveyors shall make oath before the respective commissioners, truly and faithfully to discharge the duties
of their office.
"SE c. 20. The course of the lines shall be determined by
the magnetic needle, and care shall be taken to determine its
variations from the pole in the district where the surveys are
made.
"Sno. 21. The surveys shall be made with great caution,
with metallic chains made for the purpose, and care shall be
taken that the place of beginning the survey of each parcel
of land be established with certainty, taking the bearing and
distance of two permanent objects at least." (Sayles' Early
Laws, vol. 1, p. 100.)
Under that act and acts similar thereto the Supreme Court
of Texas, as has been stated, had for many years recognized
the adoption of surveys previously made as being a legal
survey within the spirit of those laws. These surveys were,
however, not made under the provisions of the act just
quoted. Soon after the passage of the act of 1819, and in
that same year, the Revised Statutes of Texas were adopted,

BACON v. TEXAS.
Opinion of the Court.

article 3908 of which has already been given in the above
statement of facts, and subdivision 8 of that article may be
here again set forth. It reads that "the correctness of the
survey and that it was made according to law shall be certified to officially by the surveyor who made the same, and
also that 8uch survey wa8 actually made in the f-eld, and that
the field-notes have been duly recorded, giving the book and
page." Thus it will be seen that the old law had been altered
at least three years previous to the application for the purchase of these lands made by the defendants, and the Court
of Civil Appeals of Texas in this case has stated in the course
of its opinion with reference to section 3908 as follows: "We
think the principal object of the legislature in requiring such
strictness in the certificate to be made by the surveyor was
to correct the abuse to which the previous law had been subjected, as above indicated, and we think it must be conceded,
if the legislature had the power to condemn what is commonly known as an office survey or office work, and to require its officer, before parting with the public lands of the
State, to. have the survey actually done in the field; it has
done so by the passage of this statute." The plaintiffs in
error claim, however, that the Revised Statutes were but a
simple revision of the laws of Texas, not meant to work any
change therein, and that the different language in which this
article is couched from that existing in the former law ought
to be regarded as working no alteration in the meaning of
the law, and that it should be construed in the same manner
as the law whose place it took. Whether this article in question was or was not a mere revision and continuation of existing law, and whether the changed phraseology properly called
for a change of construction, were questions entirely for the
state court to determine. The state court, while acknowledging that under the old law an adoptive survey was good, held
that under the new law a survey in the field was necessary.
This is no change of construction of the same act, and cannot,
therefore, form a basis for the argument of counsel for plaintiffs in error, that a change of construction of the same statute
may work an impairment of the obligations of the contract
VOL.

CLXM.-15

OCTOBER TERAI, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

so that a judgment of the state court thereon may be reviewable here. The court is under no obligation to put the same
construction upon a later statute that it has placed upon an
earlier one, though the language of the two may be similar.
TFood v. Brady, 150 U. S. 18. But it is unnecessary to dwell
upon this difference between the two statutes, because under
such circumstances as exist in this case, the decision of the
state court regarding it is not reviewable here on a writ of
error to that court.
We have thus far treated this case as if the sole question
arising in it were not of a Federal nature. It will be seen,
however, that certain tenders were made to the treasurer of
the State of Texas in payment for lands claimed by the defendants to have been purchased by them, and some of those
tenders were held by the trial court to have been insufficient,
because they included tenders of payment for some lands
where the surveys had been made after the passage of the
act of 1883 repealing the act of 1879, as well as for surveys
made before that time, and the defendants did not separate
or offer to separate in their tenders the surveys made before
the repeal from those made after, and there was consequently,
as the trial court held, no legal tender for any of the surveys,
and upon these facts the court founded a conclusion of law,
(No. 4,) which is as follows: "Bacon and Graves have never
paid, or offered to pay, for said land until long after the expiration of the time allowed and required by law. The purported surveys of many of the sections of the land for which
they tendered payment on May 19, 1883, were made after the
fifty cent act was repealed, and Bacon and Graves did not
separate or offer to separate in their tender the surveys made
before the repeal from those made after, and there was consequently no legal tender." That was one of five different
grounds upon which the trial court held that the defendants
had not complied with the law and were not entitled to purchase the lands in question. This particular finding is in no
way dependent upon the others, and they are all entirely
separate and distinct from one another. The finding No. 2,
that "they did not comply with the law by having the lands

BACON v. TEXAS.
Opinion of the Court.

surveyed, as was required by law, and therefore could not
purchase it," is distinct and separate ground for the judgment
of the court to rest upon to the same extent, as if none other
had been stated, and it is entirely sufficient in itself upon
which to rest the judgment.
If the fourth finding, above set forth, had alone been made
by the court below, this court, upon writ of error, would have
had jurisdiction to review the whole question, because by that
finding some effect is given to the subsequent act of the legislature which, it is claimed, impaired the obligation of defendants' alleged contract with the State; but where there are
two grounds for the judgment of the state court, one only of
which involves a Federal question, and the other is broad
enough to maintain the judgment sought to be reviewed, it is
now settled that this court will not look into the Federal
question, inasmuch as there is another ground upon which
the judgment can rest, and it will dismiss the writ for that
reason. Eu8s v. Bolles, 150 U. S. 361. In the course of
the opinion in that case, which was delivered by Mr. Justice
Shiras, the case, of Beaupr6 v. NToyes, 138 U. S. 397, 401, is
cited, and the opinion in the latter case contains the following
statement: "Whether the state court so interpreted the territorial statute as to deny such writ to plaintiffs in error we
need not inquire, for it proceeds in part upon another and
distinct ground, not involving a Federal question, and sufficient in itself to maintain the judgment without reference
to that question." The opinion, after stating what that
ground was, thus continues: "That view does not involve
a Federal question; whether sound or not, we do not inquire.
It is broad enough in itself to support the final judgment
without reference to the Federal question."
In 1utland Railroad v. Central Vermont Railroad, 159
U. S.630, it is stated "that where a state court, in rendering
judgment, decides a Federal question, and also decides against
the plaintiff in error upon an independent ground, not involving a Federal question, and broad enough to support the
judgment, this court will dismiss the writ of error without
considering the Federal question." To same effect are Gillis

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Syllabus.

v. Stinchfweld, 159 U. S. 658, 660, and Seneca .Nation of rndians v. Christy, 162 U. S. 283.
In such cases as this it has sometimes been the practice of
this court to affirm the judgment and sometimes to dismiss
the writ. "An examination of our records will show that in
some cases this court has affirmed the judgment of the court
below and sometimes has dismissed the writ of error. This
discrepancy may have originated in a difference of views as
to the precise scope of the questions presented. However
that may be, we think that when we find it unnecessary to
decide any Federal question, and that when the state court
has based its decision on a local or state question, our logical
course is to dismiss the writ." Eustis v. Bolles, szpra. Accordingly the judgment in the case last cited was one of dismissal. The same judgment was given in the two cases in
159 U. S., Rutland R. Ri. Co. v. Central Vermont 1. R. Co.
and Gillis v. Stinchfleld, and also in the very latest case on
the subject, that of the Seneca .Nation v. Christy, 162 U. S.
283.
The proper judgment in this case should, therefore, be one
of dismissal, and the writ is accordingly
Dismissed.

WONG WING v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUrr COURT OF THE UNUTED STATES FOR
THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF MCHIGAN.
No. 204. Argued April 1, 2,1896. -Decided

May 18,1896.

Detention or temporary confinement, as part of the means necessary to give
effect to the exclusion or expulsion of Chinese aliens is valid.
The United States can forbid aliens from coming within their borders, and
expel them from their territory, and can devolve the power and duty of
Identifying and arresting such persons upon executive or subordinate
officials; but when Congress sees fit to further promote such a policy by
subjecting the persons of such aliens to infamous punishment at hard
labor, or by confiscating their property, such legislation, to be valid,
must provide'for a judicial trial to establish the guilt of the accused.

