FARMERS' LOAN &c. CO. v. CHICAGO &o. R'Y CO.

31

Opinion of the Court.

FARMERS' LOAN AND TRUST COMPANY v. CHI-

CAGO, PORTAGE AND SUPERIOR RAILWAY
COMPANY AND CHICAGO, ST. PAUL, MINNEAPOLIS AND OMAHA RAILWAY COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF THE UNITED STATES FOR

THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF WISCONSIN.
No. 60. Argued October 18, 21, 22, 1895.-Decided May 4,1896.
The wrongs specifically charged in the bill in this case are those which
were set forth in the suit of Angle v. Chicago, St. Paul, .3inneapolis &
Omaha Railway Company, 151 U. S. 1; but there is this difference between the two cases, that in that case the Omaha Company demurred,
and on the demurrer a decree was entered against it, whereas, in this
case, the Omaha Company took issue upon the charge of having committed such wrongs, and the testimony shows that it did not commit
them.
The act of the legislature of Wisconsin of 1882, revoking the grant of land
to the Portage Company and bestowing it upon the Omaha Company,
neither in terms nor by implication burdened the transfer with a continuing obligation for the debts of the Portage Company; and no creditor of the Portage Company had any legal or equitable right to any
portion of those lands.
THE case is stated in the opinion.

.
(with
Mr. Thomas Ewing and .Mr. Milton ISouthard,
whom was Mir. Herbert B. Turner on the brief,) for appellant.
Mr. Thomas Wison for appellees.

r. Char8e

.08born

and Mr. Samuel A. Lynde were on his brief.

MR.JUSTICE BREWER delivered the opinion of the court.
This case comes before us on appeal from a decree of the
Circuit Court for the Western District of Wisconsin, of date
September 2, 1889, dismissing the bill of plaintiff and appellant for want of equity. The original bill was filed in that
court on July 25, 1855. The defendants named therein were

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

the Chicago, Portage and Superior Railway Company, (to
be hereafter called the Portage Company, the Chicago, St.
Paul, Minneapolis and Omaha Railway Company, (to be hereafter called the Omaha Company,) Ransom R. Cable, Henry
H,. Porter, A. A. Jackson and Charles J. Barnes. After some
preliminary pleadings the defendants filed answers, testimony
was-taken, and the case was submitted for hearing on the.
pleadings and proofs.
-The plaintiff sued as trustee in a deed of trust executed by
the Portage Company on January 1, 1881, to secure a proposed issue of negotiable bonds to the amount of $10,200,000,
of which 758 bonds of $1000 each were claimed to be still
outstanding and unpaid. The deed of trust covered all the
'property of the railway company, including a certain grant of
lands made by the United States to the State of Wisconsin
and transferred by the State to it. The claim, in a general
way, was that these lands had been wrongfully wrested by
the 'Omaha Company from the Portage Company, and a
decree was asked declaring this deed of trust a first lien on
such lands. The wrongs specifically charged in the bill are
those set forth in the suit of Angle against the same two railway companies, reported in 151 U. S. 1, to which case, therefore, ieference may be had for a full statement thereof.
That case was disposed of on demurrer, while this is before us
upon the proofs; and in view of the opinion there filed the
question we have now to consider is whether the testimony
sustains the cbarges.
• The plaintiff states three propositions, each of which it
claims is established by the evidence, and either one of which
it says entitles it to the relief prayed for:
"First. - That the Omaha Company wrongfully and fraudulently prevented the Portage Company from complying with
the conditions of the grant, and caused the grant to be transferred to itself.
" " Second. - That the Omaha Company, by its wrongful
acts, became the sole stockholder of the Portage Company,
hnd as such stockholder wrongfully and fraudulently used its
.powers and position 'to strip the Portage Company of its
property and transfer it to itself.

FARMERS' LOAN &c. CO. v. CHICAGO &c. R'Y CO.

33

Opinion of the Court.

"Third. - That the act of the legislature of Wisconsin of
February 16, 1882, revoking the grant to the Portage Company, and the act of March 7, 1883, confirming the revocation,
did not divest or attempt to divest the creditors of the Portage
Company of their legal or equitable rights, nor attempt to
prevent them from having these lands appropriated so far as
may be necessary to the satisfaction of their debts. Otherwise these acts would be null and void as impairing the obligation of a contract and invading private rights."
Involved in and essential to the plaintiff's case is the specific
charge that the Omaha Company bribed certain officials of
the Portage Company (in whose hands was perhaps the only
valid outstanding stock of the Portage Company, and held
by them in trust) to dispose of that stock, so that the Omaha
Company, with knowledge of the trust attending the stock,
and in breach thereof, became the controlling, if not the sole,
stockholder in the Portage Company. It is true that on January 20, 1882, A. A. Jackson, of Janesville, Wisconsin, C. J.
Barnes, of the city of Chicago, Illinois, and J. C. Barnes, of
the city of New York, transferred to R. R. Cable, who was
acting for the Omaha Company, one million dollars of the
capital stock of the Portage Company standing in the name
of Jackson, and so much of another million dollars of capital
stock, standing in the name of J. C. Barnes, as was absolutely
valid and full paid stock, together with five hundred shares
standing in the name of C. J. Barnes. This transaction is
challenged, and its honesty and good faith are primary matters of inquiry.
In order to a clear understanding a brief statement of what
had theretofore transpired is essential. Prior to 1880 the
Portage Company had done a little work in the construction
of the line aided by the land grant, and but little. The work
had been stopped, and the company was practically a dormant
corporation, owning the land grant and subject to certain indebtedness. Its principal, if not sole, creditor was the Chicago
and Northern Construction. Company, which had done all the
work on the road. This construction company, having expended some money in construction, for which the railroad
Vol- CLXI--3

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

company was indebted to it, was itself indebted to A. A.
Jackson, an attorney of Janesville, in the sum of $18,000;
to I. 0. Sloan, an attorney of Madison, in the sum of $2000;
and to Edward Ruger, of Janesville, for engineering services,
in the sum of $10,000, (for which sums these parties had recovered judgments,) and to others in smaller sums, aggregating not exceeding $10,000. At the time of the negotiation
hereafter referred to, with Gaylord and others, the railway
company had issued $1i00,000 in bonds and $500,000 stock, of
which issue the construction company owned and held all the
bonds and $350,000 of the stock. Mr. T. C. Barnes was the
individual who had put the most money into the construction
company, and was practically its owner. In the summer of
1880 one Willis Gaylord entered into arrangements with
Barnes for the reorganization of the railway company, and
the securing of means for the construction of the road. The
exact terms of the arrangements between Gaylord and Barnes
may be open to some question, for Gaylord was not produced
as a witness, and Barnes' recollection was not clear. A contract
in writing, executed on the 20th of September, 1880, between
Gaylord, the New England and Western Investment Company
and William H=. Schofield, by which the latter two parties were
to render their services in securing funds for the building of
the road, throws some light on the question. It recites:
"And whereas, in the securing of said railway company's charter, land grant, rights of way, surveys, about sixty (60) miles
of roadbed graded and other lawful and proper expenses,
there has been over seven hundred thousand dollars of money
expended, which is represented by the aforesaid charter, land
grant, rights of Way and other property, it is to be provided
that out of the new series of first mortgage bonds there is to
be set apart and made a special trust seven hundred (700) of
said new first mortgage bonds of $1000 each; also ten per
cent of the capital stock of the company, and, by the order in
writing of said Willis Gaylord, countersigned by the president
of said railway company, paid to the persons entitled to receive
the same, as designated by the said Gaylord, in full liquidation and satisfaction of all claims and demands (except as

FARMERS' LOAN &c. CO. v. CHICAGO &c. R'Y CO.

35

Opinion of the Court.

hereinafter stated) of the present owners of said railway, and
for all expenditures and claims made and due for said charter,
land grant, right of way, surveying, grading and all and every
kind of expense on account of said railway company (not including a certain amount of floating debt now outstanding,
which does not exceed forty thousand dollars ($40,000) and
to be provided for hereinafter), and the aforesaid $700,000 in
first mortgage bonds are to have the interest coupons for the
first two years from their date cut off and cancelled, and the
said bonds, together with ten per cent of the capital stock as
aforesaid are to be placed in trust, as a special trust, and be
delivered to the parties entitled to receive the same, as designated by the said Gaylord, to be delivered, however, only pro
rata, as the other bonds and stock are delivered for material
or money, and as the road is constructed and put in operation
in sections of ten (10) miles each.
"And whereas there is in the form of floating debt, in
lawful and proper claims, approximately but not exceeding
$40,000, it is to be provided that when, through said examination, the enterprise is found to be satisfactory to said investment company, and the proposed new bonds and stock are
prepared and deposited as herein provided for, then said
investment company will proceed at once to the negotiation
of the same, and will,'as soon as cash to the amount of $40,000
shall have been procured, pay or cause to be paid said sum to
A. S. Barnes & Co., in payment of said floating debt, and on
such payment being made, the reorganization or substitution
of new directors and officers of said railway company, as
herein provided, shall then take place.
"And the said Gaylord shall furnish satisfactory evidence
and assurance that the said $700,000 of first mortgage bonds
and ten per cent of capital stock will pay, cancel and fully
release all claims, demands and incumbrances against said
railway company, except said floating debt, and that the floating debt aforesaid does not and shall not exceed $40,000."
Apparently, from this recital, the $40,000, or such a matter,
due by the construction company to Jackson and others, was
treated as a debt of the railway company and was to be paid

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

in cash, leaving the indebtedness of the railway company to
the construction company to be satisfied by the $700,000 bonds
and the 10 per cent of the stock. It would seem from other
evidence that Barnes was to take $350,000 of the bonds and
the stock and Gaylord was to take the balance of the bonds,
although there is testimony that Gaylord was to receive fifty
of the Barnes bonds for personal services and by way of
commission. There was a modification of this contract on
January 20, 1881, but the change is not material to this controversy. On March 28, 1881, the action of Gaylord in the
two contracts of September 20, 1880, and January 20, 1881,
was approved by the directors of the railway company, who
also, on the same date, passed a resolution as follows:
that for all present outstanding stock
"Resolved,
certificates new certificates of stock for a like amount shall
be issued and delivered to the parties entitled to receive the
same upon the surrender and cancellation of their old certificates of stock and in exchange therefor."
The second day thereafter, on March 30, a resolution was
passed, which, after referring to the appropriation of bonds to
the amount of $700,000 and stock to the amount of a million
for the purpose of discharging the indebtedness of the company, recites the receipt of full value in real property and
other valuable consideration for such bonds and stock, and
gives the consent of the company to the immediate issue of
one half the amount thereof.
Just before the passage of these two resolutions, and on
March 26, 1881, the construction company assigned to Jackson its claim against the railway company for bonds and
stock, as well as all of its claims and demands of any and every
kind against the railway company. Jackson took this assignment really for J. C. Barnes, aid was to hold the claim, thus
assigned, for him until he should be able to pay the amounts
due to Ruger, Sloan and others. Subsequently, and on May
17, 1881, Jackson forwarded to the president of the railway
company a letter, giving notice of the assignment, stating
that of the 400 bonds which had belonged to the construction
company 361 had been surrendered to the railway company

FARMERS' LOAN &c. CO. v. CHICAGO &c. R'Y CO.

37

Opinion of the Court.

to be exchanged for new bonds, and that he had in his possession the remaining 39, and proposing to surrender the 39 and
release all claims for the 361 upon the issue to him of $650,000
of fall paid stock. Whereupon the board of directors took
the following action:
"On motion of Win. T. Watson, duly seconded, the following resolution was adopted:
"Whereas A. A. Jackson, as the assignee of the Chicago
and Northern Pacific Construction Company, holds 39 bonds
of this company issued by this company under its former
name of the Chicago and Northern Pacific Air Line Railway
Company, bearing date July 1, 1872, with the coupons thereto
annexed, and as assignee of said construction company he is
also entitled to receive from this company 361 bonds of this
company of $1000 each, with interest thereon from the 1st
day of July, 1872, at the rate of seven per cent per annum,
amounting in all, on the 1st day of June, 1881, to the sum of
$649,663.00; and
"Whereas the said Jackson has made a proposition to this
company, in writing, proposing to surrender to this company
said 39 bonds so held by him and to release this company
from its liability and obligation to deliver to him 361 bonds
and interest upon the company issuing and delivering to him
6500 shares of the capital stock of this company:
"Therefore Resolved, That the proposition of A. A. Jackson
be, and the same is hereby, accepted, and the president and
secretary are hereby authorized and directed to sign, seal and
deliver to said A. A. Jackson certificates of full paid stock of
this company of the par value of $650,000, upon said Jackson's delivery to them of said 39 bonds, with the coupons
thereto annexed, and a properly executed instrument releasing and discharging this company from its liability and obligation to execute and deliver to him bonds of this company
for $361,000 and interest at 7 per cent from July 1, 1872,
in pursuance of his proposition; and
"Resolved, That the proposition of A. A. Jackson be
entered upon the records of this company in connection with
this order."

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

In accordance, therefore, with the terms of this resolution,
and that of March 28, heretofore quoted, Jackson was entitled to receive, on the surrender of the $350,000 of old
stock and 39 bonds in his possession and the release of all
claim ini respect to the 361 theretofore surrendered, the sum
of $1,000,000 in full paid stock of the company. This stock
when issued to Jackson would, under the arrangement between him and Barnes, be held by Jackson for the benefit
of J. 0. Barnes. This stock was in fact issued and delivered
to Barnes for Jackson. That this stock was not obtained surreptitiously, but delivered knowingly by the officers of the
company to Barnes for Jackson, is evidenced by the following letters and receipt, the letters being signed by the president of the company:
"Chicago, Portage and Superior Railway Company. Wm. H.
Schofield, President.
PRESWEN'r's OFFICE, 150 BROADWAY,
"1NEW YORK, June 18, 1881.
"R. G. Rolston, Esq'r, President Farmers' Loan and Trust
Company, New York.
"DEAR SiR: I have this day deposited with the Farmers'
Loan and Trust Company eight thousand six hundred and
fifty (8650) shares of $100 each of the capital stock of the
Chicago, Portage and Superior Railway Company to be paid
out or delivered by you upon special orders by me prepared
and this day left with you for acceptance. Will you please
sign the form of acceptance on said stock orders, and when
so signed and upon the presentation and surrender to you
of this order deliver to Jno. C. Barnes, Esq'r, the aforesaid
special orders representing the said 8650 shares of stock,
and this is your general authority for the delivery of said
stock to the persons and at the terms named in said special
orders.
"CHIcAGo,

PORTAGE AND SuPERIoR

"By Wy. H. SOHovrmLD, Presid-eit."

RAmwAY ComPANi,

FARMERS' LOAN &c. CO. v. CHICAGO &c. R'Y CO.

39

Opinion of the CourL

"Office of the Farmers' Loan iand Trust Company, 26 Exchange
Place, cor. William St.
"NEw YonX, June 17, 1881.
"Received from the Farmers' Loan and Trust Company
certificates for the delivery of eighty-six hundred and fifty
shares of the capital stock of the Chicago, Portage and Superior Railway Company in accordance with the terms of said
certificates.
"J. C. BA
.
"Per E. D. HoToHijss."
"NEW YORK, Oct. 22, 1881.
"To the Farmers' Loan and Trust Co., New York:
"You are hereby authorized and directed to deliver to John
C. Barnes, Esq., of the city of New York, all the certificates
of the capital stock of the Chicago, Portage and Superior
Railway Company, referred to and described in 90 certain
orders signed and accepted by you, on .the surrender to you of
all of said orders, without regard to any of the conditions or
limitations contained or specified in said orders.
,
C'
CmcAGo, PORTAGE Aam SUPERIOR RAILWAY Come~fyP
"By WiIrwa 1

H. SCHOFIELD, Pre8idnt."

Further, on the stubs of the stock book of the company, in
the handwriting of the president, except the signature of J. C.
Barnes, appear these entries:
On the stub of certificate numbered 1 (the stubs of certificates from 1 to 90, inclusive, being precisely similar except in
number of shares): "On acc't stock, bonds & interest cancelled
and returned. No. 1 for 500 shares June 18, 1881. Issued to
A. A. Jackson of Janesville, Wisconsin. Received certificate
No. 1, as above described, June 18, 1881."
And on stub No. 132 . "On account of stock, bonds & int.
cancelled & returned. No. 132 for 1350 shares October 24,
1881. Issued to A. A. Jackson of Janesville, Wis. To make
bal. of 1,000,000 June 18, '81. Received certificate No. 132,
as above described, Oct. 24, 1881, for A. A. Jackson, $1,000,000

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

in ten thousand shares. Dated June 18, '81, and present date.
J. C. Barnes."
On the day of receiving the last of these stock certificates,
to wit, October 24, Barnes wrote to Jackson, advising him of
the issue of the 10,000 shares in his name; that the certificates
were in his (Barnes') hands, and that he, Jackson, could vote
on that stock. On October 31 Jackson, being in New York,
received from Barnes this receipt:
"A. S. Barnes & Co., publishers.
"1iNEw YoRK, Octo. 31, 1881.
"Received from A. A. Jackson ninety-one (91) certificates of
stock of the Chicago, Portage and Superior Railway Company,
aggregating ten thousand (10,000) shares, as follows:
2,500
"No. 1 to 5, inc., 500 sh's ea ...............
" 6"
" 56 "
" 76

55, "
75, "

" 90,

"

100
50

"

c ...............
" ...............

10

"

...............

"

" 132 for ... : ..........................

5,000
1,000
150

1,350

.10,000
"Total shares ....................
"The above certificates are issued to A. A. Jackson and
have not been transferred, but are held for his future order.
"1J.0. B zm."
Jackson took that receipt, as he testifies, simply because he
did not care to carry the certificates home, and wished something to show where they were and that they were held subject to his order. On November 15 thereafter J. C. Barnes
transmitted to his nephew, C. J. Barnes, in Chicago, the
stock, accompanied by this letter and power of attorney:
"N.w YoRx, Nov. 15, 1881.
"Charles J. Barnes:
"By express to-day I send you ten thousand shares of C.,
P. & S. railway stock, issued to A. A. Jackson, and which
belonged to him for settlement of construction company's
claims, etc. I send these shares at the request of Mr. Jack-

FARMERS' LOAN &c. CO. v. CHICAGO &c. R'Y CO.

41

Opinion of the Court.

son. He will explain why they are sent, and his argument
agrees with my own convictions. These shares are not ever
to be parted from your custody, except as it shall be deemed
necessary to protect the mutual interest of Jackson, yourself
and myself, and are only to be used in extreme case of necessity for our mutual benefit. I also enclose authority to sell
the ten thousand shares which stand in my name on the company book.

J. C. B.ANMs.

"NEW Yonx, November 15, 1881.
"This is to say that Charles J. Barnes is my true and lawful attorney for negotiation and sale of a certain number of
certificates of stock standing in my name on the books of the
Chicago, Portage and Superior Railway Co., said certificates
dated June, 1881, and aggregating $1,000,000.
"J. 0. BARNxS."

It would seem clear from this evidence, not depending on
imperfections of memory, but contained in writings, (many of
them on the books of the company and made by its officers,)
that Jackson was the legal holder of this million of dollars of
stock, free from all obligation to the company, and subject
only to the trust in favor of J. 0. Barnes. It is difficult to
see why Jackson did not have the legal right, with the assent
of Barnes, to dispose of this stock to whomsoever he saw fit,
and at any price he could obtain. The debt of the railway
company to the construction company is not disputed; the
documentary evidence establishes that for that debt the company issued this stock as full paid stock; no limitations are
expressed in the proposition of Jackson or the resolution of
acceptance, and for aught that these records disclose he had
the same right and control over this stock, subject only to his
trust in favor of Barnes, that any stockholder in any corporation has over his. It is true that the transaction between
Jackson and the railway company seems to involve some departure from the arrangement indicated by the contract between Gaylord and others, of September 20, 1880, for that
apparently contemplated the issue of $700,000 of bonds,

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

$1,000,000 stock and the payment of $40,000 in cash in satisfaction of all the debts of the railway company; but this
transaction was the later one, and, in so far as it modified the
earlier arrangement, superseded it. It is probable that there
was in fact no modification, but only an addition, and that
Gaylord and J. C. Barnes still expected to receive $700,000
in bonds and $1,000,000 in stock, in addition to this $1,000,000
of stock issued to Jackson, for additional certificates of stock
to the amount of $1,000,000 were made out by the officers of
the company in the name of J. 0. Barnes, though never delivered to him. Apparently they regarded this as a bonus
for their services.
It is this last $1,000,000 of stock which is referred to in the
authority given by J. C. Barnes to C. J. Barnes of November
15, 1881, heretofore quoted, and also in the following letter of
authority given on November 19 by J. C. Barnes to Jackson:
"A. A. Jackson, Esq., Janesville, Wis.:
"I hereby authorize and empower you to negotiate the
sale for me of the certain ten thousand (10,000) shares of
stock now standing in my name on the books of the Chicago,
Portage and Superior Railway Company, said shares representing the par value of one million dollars.
"J. C. B._Es."
It was evidently the doubt as to the validity of this latter
stock as full paid stock that induced the parties in making
the transfer to Cable to thus describe it in their contract of
sale: "And so much of the ten thousand shares of the capital
stock standing in the name of John C. Barnes, aforesaid, on
the books of said company (which last named stock said
Jackson and C. J. Barnes, as agents of said John C. Barnes,
are authorized and empowered to sell upon such terms as they
shall see fit, a copy of the said authority from said John C.
Barnes to said A. A. Jackson being hereto annexed and made
apart hereof) as is absolutely valid and full paid stock."
We do not deem it necessary to enter into any consideration
of the question of its validity, or whether it was full paid

FARIERS' LOAN &c. CO. v. CHICAGO &c. R'Y CO.

43

Opinion of the Court.

stock, and only refer to it for the purpose of showing that the
transaction with Jackson was independent of the arrangement between Gaylord and Barnes, and was unaccompanied
by aniy conditions which may be claimed to have attached to
the stock issued in Barnes' name.
The testimony further discloses that, from some time in the
latter part of 1881 until the sale made by Jackson to Cable,
Schofield, as the president of the railway company, was negotiating with the officers of the Grand Trunk Railway Company with a view to securing their interest in the Portage
Company, and their aid in floating its bonds in European
markets, and that those negotiations had proceeded finally so
far as to disclose a possibility, perhaps a probability, of success. Jackson and J. C. Barnes were aware of the pendency
of these negotiations, and of the various steps therein, so far
as they were disclosed by the records of the Portage Company, and the contracts which were reported by Schofield to
the directors of that company. The Grand Trunk Company
having secured an entrance into Chicago, evidently saw the
possibility of benefit to itself in obtaining control of a road
running into the far Northwest, and upon that view entered
into these negotiations. It is also true that when the Grand
Trunk Company found that Cable, acting for the Omaha
Company, had purchased this Jackson stock, it abandoned all
negotiations and gave up the thought of attempting to secure
control of the Portage Company. It is claimed by Jackson
that the delays in negotiations with the Grand Trunk Company were such that he had lost sli confidence in their success; that he offered the stock to officers of that company at
the same price that Cable subsequently paid for it, and that
they declined to take it.
Putting the most unfavorable construction upon the testimony, it does not seem to us that either Jackson or Barnes
can be condemned of any breach of trust, or other obligation,
to the Portage Company when, having offered the stock to
the Grand Trunk Company, at the price afterwards paid by
Cable, and such offer having been declined, they sold it to the
Omaha Company. It may be that thereby Schofield and

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

Gaylord were deprived of the profits which they expected to
secure by successfully carrying through the negotiations with
the Grand Trunk Company, but we do not understand that
one stockholder is, by virtue of his ownership of stock, bouhd
to continue in the holding of it in order to allow another
stockholder to make a profit out of negotiations then pending.
Jackson and Barnes had the same right to look after their
own interests in the sale of the stock that Schofield and Gaylord had after theirs in the negotiations with the Grand Trunk
Company. It seems very probable, if we may speculate as
to what would have been the result if the negotiations with
the Grand Trunk Company had been successfully carried to
completion, that the $1,000,000 of stock which Jackson held,
instead of being worth $200,000, would have been worth
little or nothing, and we do not understand that a stockholder
is under obligations, legal or moral, to sacrifice his personal
interests in order to secure the welfare of the corporation of
which he is a stockholder or to enable another stockholder to
make gains and profits.
In short, to sum up this branch of the case, from the testimony in this record it is, we think, clear that Jackson was
guilty of no breach of trust in selling this stock; that it
belonged, both legally and equitably, to J. C. Barnes and him.
self ; that they had a full legal and moral right to sell it to
any one who would pay their price, and it equally follows
that the Omaha Company and Cable, in making the purchase,
were themselves guilty of no wrong.
Another claim is that the Omaha Company wrongfully prevented the Portage Company from earning the land grant.
This, it is said, was done by inducing the general manager of
the company to withdraw the engineering corps and to stop
the contractor from proceeding with the work of construction,
and, after all work had in fact been stopped, by false swearing securing an ex parte injunction to restrain the officials of
the Portage Company from any further efforts in its behalf.
But the testimony does not make good these charges. It is
true Mr. Cable, after his purchase of the stock, asked Mr.
Peck, the general manager, to discontinue the work of con-

FARMERS' LOAN &c. CO. v. CHICAGO &c. RIY CO.

45

Opinion of the Court.

struction, but the latter, as he himself testifies, declined to do
this, not recognizing 31r. Cable as having any authority in
the matter. He did, however, after consultation with the
president and learning that negotiations for the assistance of
the Grand Trunk Company had been abandoned, notify the
contractors by telegraph of the fact, and that there seemed
to be no immediate prospect of raising money to continue the
work. With reference to the alleged obtaining of an exlarte
injunction on false affidavits, the facts are these: The president of the Portage Company, who was a resident of New
York, after the giving up of the negotiations with the Grand
Trunk Company, returned to that city, and there had in his
possession the books and papers of the company - indeed, for
all practical purposes, the office of the company seems to have
been theretofore transferred from Chicago to New York. Mr.
Cable sought to have the stock which he had purchased transferred on the stock books of the company, but failed in his
efforts. He was informed that the president was calling special meetings of the directors of the company in New York
without giving notice to the local directors and without their
presence, and by virtue of authority granted at such meetings
was disposing of bonds and stock-information which we
regret to say had no slight foundation in the actual facts.
Whereupon he filed his bill in the Circuit Court of Cook
County, Illinois, which, reciting his purchase and ownership
of the stock, the conduct of the president and other officials
of the corporation, as above stated, prayed an injunction
against the Portage Company and its president. In order that
the exact scope of this injunction may be apparent we quote
from the prayer in the bill, the order of the court being that
an injunction issue as prayed for:
"That a preliminary injunction issue restraining the defendants and their officers, directors, agents and servants from
issuing or causing or allowing to be issued any of the capital
stock of said corporation, and from issuing, selling, pledging
or causing to be issued or sold or pledged, any of the mortgage bonds of said corporation until the further order of this
court, and also restraining said defendants and their officers,

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

directors, servants and agents from transferring or allowing to
be transferred upon the books of said corporation any of the
capital stock which has been issued by said Schofield as above
stated and which is above charged to have been wrongfully,
fraudulently and improperly issued, or any other fraudulent
capital stock of said company, and that said defendants, their
officers, agents and servants, be also restrained and prohibited
from calling or holding or causing to be called or held any
meeting of the directors of said corporation or attempting to
transact business at such meeting and from taking part as an
officer or director at such meeting unless full notice of such
meeting and the time and place of holding the same shall
have been given to each of the above named directors of said
corporation, and not in that event unless such meeting and
meetings shall be notified to be held and shall be held at the
principal office of said corporation, in the city of Chicago, in
the State of Illinois.
"And that until such time as said books and papers of said
corporation shall be returned to and kept at its office in the
city of Chicago aforesaid, open to the inspection of your orator, said defendants will be prohibited and restrained from
doing any act or thing concerning or affecting the financial
affairs of said corporation for the amount of its liabilities or
the amount of its capital stock, and from entering upon the
records of said company any statement or record of its actings
or doings."
It is true that the temporary restraining order, or temporary injunction, was granted on the 9th day of February, 1882,
without notice, but the defendants were in a few days served
with process. They made no attempt to have the order
vacated, but, on the contrary, on March 20, 1882, the Portage
Company filed a cross-bill seeking to restrain Cable from disposing of the stock he had purchased, and praying that it be
delivered up for cancellation. Nothing, however, came of
this litigation, and it was abandoned in consequence of negotiations and a settlement between Cable and the investment
company.
Finally, it is insisted that the Omaha Company wrongfully

FARMERS' LOAN &c. CO. v. CHICAGO &c. R'Y CO.

47

Opinion of the Court.

and fraudulently secured through the action of the legislature
of the State of Wisconsin a transfer of the land grant to itself,
and further that the action of the legislature in making such
transfer did not divest, or attempt to divest, the creditors of
the Portage Company of their legal or equitable rights, nor
prevent them from having the lands appropriated so far as
was necessary to the satisfaction of their debts.
With reference to the first portion of this charge, it is sufficient to say that there is absolutely no foundation for it in the
testimony. It does not appear that there was any corruption,
or attempted corruption, by the Omaha Company of any of
the members of the legislature, or other officials. Everything
it did was open and above board. At the instance of the
officials of the Portage Company it consented that a stipulation be introduced into the act of forfeiture and transfer that
it should pay to the governor of the State the sum of $78,000,
to be used in payment of labor claims for work done on the
Portage Company's line, and after the passage of the act it
did pay the stipulated sum. We are left, therefore, to the
single question whether the act of the legislature, either in
terms or by implication, burdened the transfer with a continuing obligation for the debts of the Portage Company. No
such burden was in terms imposed. The grant was, so far
as the legislative action discloses, simply taken away from the
Portage Company because of a failure to comply with the
conditions under which it had originally been bestowed upon
it. On such failure of the Portage Company all its right to
the lands ceased. Whatever the legislature might thereafter
do in its behalf was a mere act of grace. No creditor of the
Portage Company had any legal or equitable right to any
portion of those lands, and if the legislature had simply
revoked the grant and resumed possession on behalf of the
State there would be no pretence of a claim that any such
creditor could subject the lands, or any interest therein, to the
satisfaction of his debt. There is no intimation of a contrary
doctrine in the opinion filed in .Railway Company v. Angle,
8uvra. All that was there held was that the legislative
action did not condone, and was not intended to condone,

OCTOiER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

any wrongs done by the Omaha Company; and that if the
Omaha Company had been guilty of any fraudulent conduct,
in consequence of which the Portage Company had been prevented from earning the grant and the legislature thereby
induced to revoke it and bestow it upon the Omaha Company,
the party wronged by those acts of the Omaha Company was
entitled to redress. But here, as we have seen, although the
charges are the same, yet the testimony fails to make good
those charges, or to show any fraudulent or wrongful conduct on the part of the Omaha Company. The legislative
act condoned no wrong, for there was no wrong to condone.It neither placed nor continued any burden upon the land
grant, and hence the mortgage creditors of the Portage Company, having no lien, legal or equitable, cannot pursue the
lands in the hands of the Omaha Company.
There is this substantial difference between the Avgle case
and the present: While in each are charges of grievous wrong
on the part of the Omaha Company, in consequence of which
property which otherwise would have been subjected to the
payment of the plaintiff's claims was obtained by the Omaha
Company, in the Angle case the Omaha Company demurred,
saying there was no remedy notwithstanding the wrongs alleged. We held that if such wrongs as were alleged had been
committed, the law did furnish a remedy. In this case the
Omaha Company took issue upon the charge of having committed such wrongs, and the testimony shows that it did not
commit them. So the proof fails to make good the chargeg,
and the decree of the Circuit Court was right, and is
Ajffirmed.
Mr. JusmcE HAuLAw concurs in the result upon the grounds
stated in his opinion at the circuit. 39 Fed. Rep. 143; 151
U. S. 1-28.

