OCTOBER TERM, 1895.

632

Syllabus.

WIBORG v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
EASTERN DISTRICT OF PENSYLVANIA.
N o. 96.

Submitted May 18,1896. -Decided

May 25, 1M6.

The several acts described in and made punishable by Rev. Stat. § 5286, are
stated therein separately and disjunctively, connected by the conjunction
The indictment in this case, charging that the defendants com"or."
mitted some of those acts, connects them by the conjunction "and." No
question of duplicity was raised by the defendants' counsel. The trial
judge instructed the jury that the evidence would not justify a conviction of anything more than providing the means for, or aiding the military expeditions set forth in the indictment, by furnishing transportation
for their men, etc. Held, that the verdict could not be disturbed on the
ground that more than one offence was included in the same count of the
indictment.
Providing, or preparing the means of transportation for such a military
expedition or enterprise as is referred to in Rev. Stat. § 5286, is one of
the forms of provision or preparation therein denounced.
A hostile expedition, dispatched from a port of the United States, Is within
the words "carried on from thence."
A body of men went on board a tug in a port of the United States, loaded
with arms; were taken by it thirty or forty miles and out to sea; met a
steamer outside the three mile limit by prior arrangement; boarded her
with the arms, opened the boxes and distributed the arms among themselves; drilled to some extent; were apparently officered; and then, as
preconcerted, disembarked to effect an armed landing on the coast of
Cuba, when the United States were at peace with Spain. Held, that this
constituted a military expedition or enterprise within the provisions of
the Revised Statutes.
On the question whether the defendants aided the expedition with knowledge of the facts, the jury were Instructed that they must acquit unless
they were satisfied beyond reasonable doubt that defendants, when they
left Philadelphia, had knowledge of the expedition and its objects, and
had arranged and provided for its transportation. Held, that the defendants had no adequate ground of complaint on this branch of the case.
A statement of facts by the court In a recapitulation of the evidence, based
on uncontradicted testimony, no rule of law being incorrectly stated,
and the facts being submitted to the determination of the jury, is not
open to exception.
The ruling in Simmons v. United Slates, 142 U. S. 148, that "the judge presiding at a trial, civil or criminal, in any court of the United States, may
-express his opinion to the jury upon the questions of fact which he sub-

WIBORG v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.
mits to their determination" applied to statements by the court below in
its charge in this case.
Assuming that a secret combination between the party and the captain or
officers of the Horsa had been proven, then, on the question whether such
combination was lawful or not, the declarations of those engaged in it
explanatory of acts done In furtherance of its object were competent.
Wbhere a plain error has been committed in a matter vital to defendants,
this court is at liberty to correct it, although the question may not be
properly raised; and being of opinion that adequate proof of guilty
knowledge or participation on the part of the mates Is not shown by the
record, It reverses the judgment as to them, although no exception was
taken.
WIBORG, the captain, and Petersen and Johansen, the mates,
of the steamer Horsa, were indicted in the District Court of
the United States for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania
under section 5286 of the Revised Statutes. The indictment
charged that defendants, "mariners, at the district aforesaid
and within the jurisdiction of this court, did, within the territory and jurisdiction of the United States, to wit, at the
port of Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, within the district aforesaid, begin, set on foot and provide and prepare the means
for a certain military expedition and enterprise to be carried
on from thence against the territory and dominions of a
foreign prince, to wit, against the Island of Cuba, the said
Island of Cuba being then and there the territory and dominions of the King of Spain, the said United States being
then and there at peace with the King of Spain,. contrary to
the form of the act of Congress in such case made and provided and against the peace and dignity of the United States
of America." They were tried before Judge Butler and a
jury, and convicted. Motions in arrest of judgment and for
a new trial were severally made and overruled, and defendants were sentenced to pay fines and to serve terms in the
state penitentiary. This writ of error was thereupon sued
out and defendants admitted to bail.
The Horsa was a Danish steamer, sailing under the Danish
flag, and defendant Wiborg, its captain, was a subject of the
King of Denmark, as were also his co-defendants, as claimed
by their counsel.

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Statement of the Case.

The Horsa was engaged in the fruit business for John D.
Hart & Company, of Philadelphia, and on November 9, 1895,
cleared from Philadelphia for Port Antonio, Jamaica. She
had on board but little cargo, consisting of two life-boats, a
lot of empty boxes and barrels, two horses, some horse feed,
bales of hay and boxes of corn, all of which were entered on
her manifest. Just before sailing, Captain. Wiborg received
a message, (in writing but not produced,) which, he said, was:
"After I passed the Breakwater to proceed north near Barnegat and await further orders." The Horsa sailed between six
and seven i.-., and, after passing the Delaware Breakwater,
her proper course would be southward. She turned, however,
to the northward, went up the Jersey coast to Barnegat light
and anchored on the high seas between three and four miles
off the shore. Between ten and eleven the same evening the
steam lighter J. S. T. Stranahan sailed from Brooklyn, carrying some cases of goods and two life-boats, which had been
put on board by the crew of the lighter during the evening.
On the lower bay of lNew York, below Staten Island, during
the night she took on board between thirty and forty passengers, mostly dark-complexioned men speaking a foreign
language, apparently Cubans or Spaniards. The lighter then
ran down to Barnegat, where she saw the Horsa under a white
flag. She also ran up a white flag, went alongside, and put
aboard her passengers with the cases of goods and the lifeboats. They brought authority in writing from John D.
Hart & Company, which was not produced. Captain Wiborg
saw the transfer made, and assented to it. His firemen complaining, he answered: "I told them if anybody had to hang
for this I would be the man to hang for it." He testified
that the man on the lighter brought him a message from
John D. Hart & Company. "He told me to take those
men and luggage and whatever they had aboard the Horsa,
and let them off whenever they called for it to be let off.
I shipped two boats at the same time, and the order of my
message was to deliver those two boats to those men and the
two boats that I had shipped here in Philadelphia. . .
The only order was they had a colored man there that they

WIBORG v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

called the pilot, and whenever he called for them to be let off
I should let them off and give them the boats." As to the
boats taken on at Philadelphia and those taken on off Barnegat, he was "to deliver them to these men as soon as they
called for them.

.

.

.

The pilot did not tell me where he

was going. I did talk to him, but he could talk very little
English." The captain testified that the writing from J. D.
Hart & Company, "to take whatever was in the tug, the men
and their luggage and boxes, and let them off whenever
they called for it to be let off," did not strike him as an
unusual thing; it did not strike him as unusual "that these
men were to be taken on board and turned out on the sea
with the boats." It appeared and'was admitted that there
was an insurrection in Cuba. The captain was informed that
the party was going to Cuba, and believed the men were going to fight for Cuba, but was careful to ask no questions,
and testified that he considered his own part in the affair to
be lawful. The charter-party was not produced.
After boarding the Horsa, these persons broke open the
boxes which they had brought with them, and took out rifles,
swords and machetes, and one cannon. They also had cartridge belts, medicines, and bandages with them. They were
not in uniform, but there was evidence that some of them had
caps with a little flag, which they said was a Cuban flag.
They brought their own food with them. The evidence
tended to show that when these men divided up the arms,
every man had a rifle ; that certain of them, understood to be
officers, had swords and revolvers; that one seemed to be in
command of them; and that this commander asked some of
the crew whether they would fight if attacked by a Spanish
gunboat. There was also some evidence that there were
military exercises in the nature of drilling by from three to
seven men at a time; that these persons stated that they were
going to Cuba to fight the Spaniards; that on the second day
out they made small canvas bags to put cartridges in, and
unpacked a bale of blankets which they had brought with
them, wrapped one hundred and fifty spare rifles in these
blankets in small bundles, about five in each, and threw the

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Statement of the Case.

boxes overboard in which the rifles had come, taking a rifle,
sword and machete apiece, and practising with them and the
cannon. There were three kinds of cartridges and two kinds
of rifles. One witness stated that, as he was informed by
them, there were small Winchesters for the cavalry and big
rifles for the infantry; big revolvers for the officers; and that
the cannon was a Maxim gun, in charge of a French Canadian.
This machine gun was worked with a slot and a crank, and
had its own cartridges. The witness saw it worked, and saw
them practising with it, and the man in charge showed him
how they were doing it. Some testimony was introduced on
behalf of defendants to the effect that a machete is generally
carried by the inhabitants of the West Indies, and has many
peaceful uses. One of the defendants' witnesses admitted that
it was a formidable weapon, and, moreover, that he had never
seen citizens carry guns in Cuba. It is unquestioned that the
machete is used for both war and peace, it being described in
the Century Dictionary as a "heavy knife or cutlass, used
among Spanish colonists and Spanish American countries,
both as a tool and as a weapon," and by Webster as "a large,
heavy knife, resembling a broadsword, often two or three
feet in length, used by the inhabitants of Spanish America as
a hatchet to cut their way through thickets, and for various
other purposes."
After leaving Barnegat, the Horsa took the usual course
for Jamaica, which follows the Cuban coast for about six
hours. The usual color of her funnel was yellow below with
red above and black on top, and it was so painted when she
left Philadelphia. While she was at sea the funnel was
repainted red and black, and when she returned to Philadelphia it was black, red and yellow. The name of the Horsa
was painted out amidships, but her name was on the stern in
brass letters and on the bow, and those letters were not
painted over to the captain's knowledge. About six miles off
the coast of Cuba the colored pilot gave orders to disembark.
This was about eleven o'clock at night, and the disembarkation was conducted under the supervision of Captain Wiborg,
who had the lights of the vessel put out. The two boats

WIBORG v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

were launched which had come on board at Philadelphia and
also those which had come with the lighter, and Captain
Wiborg sold the men one of the ship's boats. As one of the
boats leaked, another was lowered from the ship. The passengers took to the boats, taking with them all the ammunition and arms they could carry. The steamer then undertook
to tow the boats, but a strange light was seen in the distance,
and at the request of the men the captain cut the boats loose
and started away at full speed. Some forty boxes of cartridges had been left on the Horsa because there was no room
for them on the boats, and Captain Wiborg directed that
these should be thrown overboard. He said this was to avoid
getting into trouble at Port Antonio, since the boxes were
not manifested for that port. The lorsa then completed
her voyage to Port Antonio. The captain said he told the
collector there he had lost two boats, "to put him off his
guard."
Defendants' counsel requested the court to give to the jury
thirteen points of instructions, of which the fourth, fifth, sixth,
seventh, eighth, ninth and eleventh were as follows :
"4. That the laws of the United States and the section
under which the defendants are indicted do not prohibit transporting of arms or of military equipments to a foreign country
or forbid one or more individuals, singly or in unarmed association, from leaving the United States for the purpose of
joining in any military olperations which are being carried on
between other countries or between different parties in the
same country.
"5. That before the jury can find the defendants guilty
under this indictment they must first find that there was a
'military expedition or enterprise' against the territory of the
King of Spain. A military expedition or enterprise does not
exist unless there is a military organization of some kind
designated as infantry, cavalry or artillery, and officered
and equipped for active hostile operations.
"6. That if the jury find that there were transported on
board of the Horsa arms and men, but the same were not a
'military organization as infantry, cavalry or artillery, and

OCTOBER TERM, 189b.
Statement of the Case.

officered and equipped, or in readiness to be officered and
equipped,' then the jury must find the defendants not guilty.
"7. That it is not an offence against the laws of the United
States for a shipper to ship arms to a foreign country or for
volunteers to go to a foreign country for the purpose of joining in military operations which are being carried on between
other countries or between different parties in the same
country; in such cases the shipper and volunteer would run
the risk, the one of capture of his property, and the other of
the capture of his person by the foreign power; but the
master of the ship transporting such arms and volunteers, not
being a military expedition or enterprise, would not commit
any offence against the laws of the United States and would
not be liable under this indictment.
"8. That if the jury find from the evidence in this case
that the officers of the .steamship Horsa took on board, off the
coast of New Jersey, on the high seas, a number of men, all
dressed as citizens, without arms and equipments on their
persons, and at the same time took on board certain boxes of
arms and ammunition and munitions of war, but that the said
men were not organized as infantry, cavalry or artillery or
ready for such organization, the jury are instructed that they
must find the defendants not guilty, even if the jury believe
that the passengers on board intended to enlist, on arrival in
Cuba, in the Cuban army.
"9. That if the jury find from the evidence that the defendants took on board their vessel, off the 1ew Jersey coast,
a number of men, unarmed and not organized, either as
infantry, cavalry or artillery, and at the same time took on
board boxes of ammunition and arms, the jury are instructed
that they must find the defendants not guilty, even if the jury
should believe that the men intended upon arrival in Cuba to
enlist in the Cuban army, and that the boxes of arms were
intended for use in the Cuban army."
"11. That if the jury find from the evidence that the
passengers and boxes of arms did not constitute a military
expedition or enterprise, but that the said passengers were
simply going to Cuba to enlist in either army, and the said

WIBO G v. UN2ITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

arms and ammunition were being conveyed to Cuba to be used
by either army, then the jury are instructed that the defendants in transporting them in due course of their business committed no offence against the laws of the United States; and
the jury are further instructed that all evidence of secrecy,
such as taking on the passengers and boxes of arms on the
high seas and putting out the lights off the coast of Cuba,
were acts which the defendants might lawfully do to avoid
the capture of the passengers and the capture of the property
from off their ship by Spanish men-of-war; but under such
circumstances, if the jury find there was no military expedition
or enterprise, such acts would not of themselves be evidence
of any intent to violate the statute of the United States under
which the defendants are indicted."
The court charged the jury, explaining the indictment, and
then continued as follows:
"The evidence heard would not justify a conviction of anything more than providing the means for or aiding such
military expedition by furnishing transportation for the men,
their arms, baggage, etc. To convict them, you must be fully
satisfied by the evidence that a military expedition was organized in this country, to be carried out as and with the object
charged in the indictment, and that the defendants, with
knowledge of this, provided means for its assistance and
assisted it as before stated.
"Thus you observe the case presents two questions: First,
was such military expedition organized here in the United
States? Secondly, did the defendants render the assistance
stated here with knowledge of the facts?
"In passing on the first question, it is necessary to understand what constitutes a military expedition, within the meaning of the statute. For the purposes of this case, it is
sufficient to say that any combination of men organized here
to go to Cuba to make war upon its government, provided
with arms and ammunition, we being at peace with Cuba,
constitutes a military expedition. It is not necessary that the
men shall be drilled, put in uniforms, or prepared for efficient
service, nor that they shall have been organized as, or accord-

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Statement of the Case.

ing to the tactics or rules which relate to, what is known as
infantry, artillery or cavalry. It is sufficient that they shall
have combined and organized here to go there and make war
on the foreign government, and have provided themselves
with the means of doing so. I say 'provided themselves with
the means of doing so,' because the evidence here shows that
the men were so provided. Whether such provision, as by
arming, etc., is necessary, need not be decided in this case. I
will say, however, to counsel that were that question required
to be decided, I should hold that it is not necessary.
"Nor is it important that they intended to make war as an
independent body or in connection with others. Where men.
go without combination and organization to enlist as individuals in a foreign army, they do not constitute such military
expedition, and the fact that the vessel carrying them might
carry arms as merchandise would not be important."
Taking up defendants' thirteen points, the court disposed of
them as follows:
"&1. It is not a crime or offence against the United States,
under the neutrality laws of this country, for individuals to
leave this country with intent to enlist in foreign military
service, nor is it an offence against the United States to transport persons out of this country and to land them in foreign
countries when such persons have an intention to enlist in
foreign armies.'
"As a general proposition this is true, and the point is
affirmed.
"' 2. It is no offence against the laws of the United States
to transport arms, ammunition and munitions of war from
this country to any other foreign country, whether they are
to be used in war or not; that in such case the shipper and
transporter of the arms, ammunition and munitions of -war
only run the risk of the capture and seizure of such arms and
contraband of war by the foreign power against whom they
are intended to be used; but this does not make it an offence
against the laws of the United States, and for such cause the
defendants cannot be held guilty.'
"This is also true. No military expedition would exist in
such case.

WIBORG -v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

"'3. That it is no offence against the laws of the United
States to transport persons intending to enlist in foreign
armies, and arms and munitions of war, on the same ship;
that in such case the persons transported and the shipper and
transporter of the arms run the risk of seizure and capture by
the foreign power against whom the arms were to be used
and against whom the persons and passengers intended to
enlist; but such cause did not constitute an offence against
the laws of the United States, and for such cause the defendants cannot be found guilty.'
"This is true, provided the persons referred to herein had
not combined and organized themselves in this country to go
to Cuba and there make war on the government. If they
had so combined and organized, and yet intended when they
reached Cuba to join the insurgent army and thus enlist in
its service, and the arms were taken along for their use, they
would constitute a military expedition, as before described,
and the transportation of such body of persons from this
country for such a purpose would be an offence against the
statute.
"The fourth, fifth, sixth, seventh, eighth and ninth points
are fully answered by what has been said
"110. Even ifthe jury do find that the men taken on
board were an organized military force with officers, as
infantry, cavalry or artillery, the jury cannot find the defendants guilty unless the jury also find that the defendants
knew that they were such a military organization as infantry,
cavalry or artillery, constituting a military expedition or
enterprise against the kingdom of Spain.'
"As before stated, to justify conviction of the defendants,
the jury must be fully satisfied that the defendants knew that
the men constituted a military expedition such as I have described.
"The eleventh point has been fully answered by what the
court has said.
"The twelfth point is a very important point, and is as
follows:
"' 12. If the jury find that when the defendants left PhilaVOL. c=---41

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Statement of the Case.

delphia, and until after they had passed beyond the jurisdiction of the United States, they were ignorant of the fact that
they were to transport the men in question, with their arms
and provisions, and find that the point off Barnegat where
the men in question were taken aboard was beyond the jurisdiction of the United States-in other words, beyond the
three mile limit -and find that the vessel was sailing under
a Danish flag, then and in that case they will find the defendants not guilty.'
"This point raises the question whether the defendants
committed an offence against the statfite, if the only aid
which they furnished the expedition was furnished out at
sea, beyond the jurisdiction of this country; and I instruct
you that if the only aid furnished the vessel, being a foreign
vessel, was so beyond our jurisdiction they did not commit an
offence, and must consequently be acquitted. They allege
that the point off Barnegat where the men were taken on
board was not within three miles of our shore. If this is
true, and the defendants did not start from our shore under
an agreement to provide the means for transporting and to
transport the men, but were ignorant of the object of going
to Barnegat until they reached there, they cannot be convicted.
"If, however, they entered into an arrangement here to
furnish and provide the means of transportation, and provided
it, they axe guilty, if this was a military expedition, although
.the men were not taken aboard and the transportation did
not commence until the ship anchored off Barnegat.
" 13. It is the duty of the government to satisfy the jury
beyond a reasonable doubt that the men and arms and ammunition taken on board the steamship Horsa was a military
-expedition or enterprise from the United States against the
kingdom of Spain, and also that the defendants knew or shut
their eyes to the fact that it was a military expedition or enterprise from the United States against the kingdom of Spain;
and if the jury have from the testimony any reasonable doubt
upon either of these questions or facts, the jury will find the
defendants not guilty.'

WIBORG v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

"This point is affirmed. I trust the jury understand it.
To convict the defendants it is necessary that the government shall have satisfied your minds beyond a reasonable
doubt that this was a military enterprise, and that the defendants when they started knew it. Otherwise they are not
guilty."
The court then further recapitulated and commented on the
evidence, and, in the course of doing so, said:
"Some of them who were able to speak English declared
that they were Cubans going to Cuba to fight the Spanish;
and if these men were in combination to do an unlawful act,
-what was said by any of them at the time in carrying out
their purpose was evidence against them all as to the nature
of the expedition.
"That this was a military expedition designed to make war
against the government of Spain would seem to the court to
be free from reasonable doubt. The question, however, is one
for your determination alone, and I submit it to you as such,
reminding you that the responsibility of deciding it rests upon
you only. If you find that this was not a military expedition,
or, rather, if you are not fully satisfied that it was, your verdict will be for the defendants, without going further. If, on
the other hand, you find that it was a military expedition intended to make war against the government of Cuba, then
you must pass upon the second question stated, to wit, Did
the defendants, with knowledge of the facts, aid in carrying
out its purpose in going to Cuba? They transported the men
with their arms, ammunition and provisions. Did they enter
upon this service here with the knowledge of the fact that the
men constituted a military expedition, to fight against the
government of Cuba?

.

.

.

From this and any other tes-

timony bearing on this subject you must determine whether
they understood what the expedition and its objects were, and
had arranged and provided for its transportation when they
left Philadelphia or left our shores within the three mile limit
stated. If they were ignorant on this subject until they anchored off Barnegat light, the point being, according to the
testimony, beyond the jurisdictional limits of the United States,

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Statement of the Case.

no offence was committed, as I have before stated, against the
laws of this country.
"The question, therefore, is, Did the defendants understand
they were to carry this expedition and had provided for it, and
understand what the expedition was before leaving here? As
you have seen, they took on two extra boats before starting,
and cleared for Fort Antonio, Jamaica, and turned off of their
course at the Breakwater (the captain explaining this, to which
explanation you will give whatever weight you deem it to be
worth). When the men came to the ship off Barnegat, there
is no evidence that the captain or any one of the defendants
expressed or exhibited any surprise. It was then manifest
that the service required was to carry men and arms to Cuba
(the captain says he then so understood it), a most hazardous
undertaking. Is it probable that the defendants would have
risked themselves and their ship in this service if they had not
been prepared for it by previous arrangement, and have done it
without demurring or hesitating ? Again, is it likely that those
in charge of the expedition would have risked bringing the
men and the property to that point on the mere chance that
the defendant would take the risk of carrying them and the
property to Cuba without arranging for it beforehand? If
the defendants had refused, as it was theit right to refuse, and
it would seem certain or at least extremely probable that
they would refuse, this most hazardous service if previous arrangement had not been made, what would have been the
situation of the men and the property? The expedition would
have failed. The men would have been subject to arrest and
the property to sacrifice. Is it probable that those in charge
of such an enterprise would take the men and property to this
point, without having secured certain means of transportation
for it in advance? The captain says he was ignorant of the
service required of him until he reached the point near Barnegat. You must judge whether he should be believed or not,
and from all the evidence must determine whether the defendants left here with knowledge of and provision for what
they were about to do.
"I now submit the case to you, reminding you of its impor-

WIBORG v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

tance. If the evidence of the defendants' guilt is not entirely
clear, they should be acquitted. If it is thus clear, they should
certainly be convicted. No sympathy or prejudice must be
allowed to influence your minds in passing on this case. We
have nothing to do with the controversies between the people
of Cuba and the government of that island. We are concerned
only with the execution of the law in this case. We have only
to consider whether the statute to which your attention has
been called has been violated. It is our duty to see that the
law is honestly and justly executed; that is all. The peace
and safety of the community so manifestly depend upon the
faithful and honest administration of the law, that no man
can fail to see it. We are suffering to-day, as probably no
other people suffers, from lawlessness, from mobs, lynch law,
murder, violation of trusts, as the result of want of faithfulness in executing the law.
"You will take the case and decide it with a careful regard
to the rights of the defendants." 73 Fed. Rep. 159.
No motion or request was made that the jury be instructed
to find for defendants or either of them.
Defendants excepted "to that part of the charge of the
court giving the definition of a military expedition;" to the
refusal of the court "to read the points that were not read to
the jury," "to affirm all the points without qualification," and
"to affirm each point without qualification;" to "the statement of the court that in its opinion this was a military expedition;" and "that the men were armed;" to "the failure of
the court to comment on the evidence on behalf of the defendants;" to the statements "of the court in reference to
the reasons, motives, purposes, and acts of the defendants;" "that the defendants did not express surprise that the
men came on the vessel off Barnegat;" and "that the declarations of the men on the ship to the witnesses for the government were evidence against the defendants;" also to the
statements "that even if an agreement to furnish and provide
the means of transportation was made within the jurisdiction
of the United States to carry on a military expedition which
was not consummated until they got outside of the three mile

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

limit, that constituted an offence against the laws of the
United States;" and "that the acts and declarations of the
Cubans themselves were evidence against them all as to
the nature of the expedition."
The motion in arrest was based on the alleged want of jurisdiction of the court. Errors were assigned to the giving, refusing and qualification of instructions; to the admission in
evidence of declarations of some of the party, during the voyage, as to their destination; and to the overruling of defendants' motion in arrest of judgment for want of jurisdiction.
-Mr. I. Hallett Phiilhps and .Mr. ]Millam W. Kerr for
plaintiffs in error.
.Mr. Attorney General, .Mr. Solicitor General and .r. Assistant Attorney General lVhitney for defendants in error.
MR. CH=F JUsTIcE FULLER, after stating the case, delivered
the opinion of the court.

Title LXVII of the Revised Statutes, headed "Neutrality,"
embraces eleven sections, from 5281 to 5291, inclusive. Section 5281 prohibits the acceptance of commissions from a
foreign power by citizens of the United States within our
territory to serve against any sovereign with whom we are at
peace. Section 5282 prohibits any person from enlisting in
this country as a soldier in the service of any foreign power
and from hiring or retaining any other person to enlist or to
go abroad for the purpose of enlisting. Section 5283 deals
with fitting out and arming vessels in this country in favor of
one foreign power as against another foreign power with
which we are at peace. Section 5284 prohibits citizens from
the fitting out or arming, without the United States, of vessels
to cruise against citizens of the United States ; and section
5285, the augmenting of the force of a foreign vessel of war
serving against a friendly sovereign. Sections 5287 to 5290
provide for the enforcement of the. preceding sections, and
section 5291, that the provisions set forth shall not be construed
to prevent the enlistment of certain foreign citizens in the
United States.

WIBORG v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of -the Court.

Section 5286 is as follows:
"Every person who, within the territory or jurisdiction of
the United States, begins, or sets on foot, or provides or prepares the means for, any military expedition or enterprise, to
be carried on from thence against the territory or dominions
of any foreign prince or State, or of any colony, district or
people, with whom the United States are at peace, shall be
deemed guilty of a high misdemeanor, and shall be fined not
exceeding three thousand dollars, and imprisoned not more
than three years."
This section was originally section five of an act approved
June 5, 1794, 1 Stat. 381, c. 50, carried forward as section six
of an act of April 20, 1818, 3 Stat. 447, c. 88, and differs therefrom in no respect material here. The language of the section
closely follows the recommendation of President Washington
in his annual address December 3, 1793, when he said:
"Where individuals shall . . . enter upon military expeditions or enterprises within the jurisdiction of the United
States . . . these offences cannot receive too early and
close an attention, and require prompt and decisive remedies."
Annals 3d Congress, 1793-95, 11. The legislation is historically considered in Dana's Wheaton, § 439, note. The statute
was undoubtedly designed in general to secure neutrality in
wars between two other nations, or between contending parties recognized as belligerents, but its operation is not necessarily dependent on the existence of such state of belligerency.
13 Ops. Attys. Gen. 177, 178. Section 5286 defines certain
offences against the United States and denounces the punishment therefor, but, although a penal statute, it must be
reasonably construed, and not so as to defeat the obvious
intention of the legislature. United States v. Lacher, 134:
U. S. 624, 628.
The offence is defined disjunctively as committed by
every person who, within our territory or jurisdiction, "begins, or sets on foot, or provides or prepares the means for,
any military expedition or enterprise, to be carried on from
thence."
This indictment charged that defendants did "begin, set on

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

foot, and provide and prepare the means for a certain military
expedition and enterprise."
Defendants' counsel did not seek to compel an election, nor
in any manner, by their motion in arrest or otherwise, to
raise the question of duplicity, nor do they now make objections to the proceedings on this ground. The district judge
instructed the jury that the evidence would not justify a conviction "of anything more than providing the means for or
aiding such military expedition by furnishing transportation
for their men, their arms, baggage," etc. Under these circumstances, the verdict cannot be disturbed on the ground that
more than one offence was included in the same count of the
indictment, but it must be applied to the offence to which
the jury were confined by the court. Crain v. United States,
162 U. S. 625.
We think that it does not admit of serious question that
providing or preparing the means of transportation for such a
military expedition or enterprise as is referred to in the statute
is one of the forms of provision or preparation therein denounced. Nor can there be any doubt that a hostile expedition dispatched from our ports is within the words "carried
on from thence." The officers of the Horsa were concerned
in providing the means of transportation.
1. The first and the main question in the present case is
whether the trial judge erred in his instructions to the jury
in respect of what constitutes a " military expedition or enterprise" under the statute. The question is one of municipal
law, and the writers on international law afford no controlling
aid in its solution. They deal principally with the status of
belligerents, and the rights and obligations of neutral nations
when the existence of such a status is formally recognized or
accepted as existing defaoto.
Calvo defines a military expedition as being an armed enterprise against a country, and he gives the expedition of Xerxes
as an illustration. Dict. de Droit Int. verbo, Expedition
Militaire.
Professor Lawrence (Prin. Int. Law, 1895, p. 508) is quoted
by counsel to the effect that, to constitute a warlike expedi-

WIBORG v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

tion, "it must go forth with a present purpose of engaging in
hostilities; it must be under military or naval command; and
it must be organized with a view to proximate acts of war.
But it need not be in a position to commence fighting the moment it leaves the shelter of neutral territory; nor is it necessary that its individual members should carry with them the
arms they hope soon to use. When a belligerent attempts to
organize portions of his combatant forces on neutral soil or in
neutral waters, he commits thereby a gross offence against the
sovereignty of the neutral government, and probably involves
it in difficulties with the other belligerent, who suffers in proportion to his success in his unlawful enterprise."
In Hall's Rights and Duties of Neutrals, § 22, it is said:
"In the case of an expedition being organized in and starting
from neutral ground, a violation of neutrality may take place
without the men of whom it is composed being armed at the
moment of leaving.
On the other hand, the uncombined elements of an expedition may leave a neutral state in
company with one another, provided they are incapable of
proximate combination into an organized whole."
Boyd in his edition of Wheaton's International Law,
§ 439aa, says: "It is impossible to lay down any hard and
fast line separating commercial transactions in munitions of
war, and the organizing of hostile expeditions. International
law is necessarily incapable of being defined and laid down
with the precision attainable by municipal law. The question
is one of intent, and it is the duty of a neutral government to
exercise due diligence in ascertaining what the real character
of the transaction may be. The elements of a hostile expedition are thus described by Professor Bernard: 'If at the
time of its departure there be the means of doing any act of
war, -if
those means, or any of them, have been procured
and put together in the neutral port,- and if there be the
intention to use them (which may always be taken for granted
when they are in the hands of the belligerent), the neutral
port may be justly said to serve as a base or point of departure
for a hostile expedition.' Montague Bernard, INeutrality of
Great Britain, p. 399."

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

But this statute is to be construed as other domestic legislation is, and its meaning is to be found in the ordinary meaning of the terms used. The definitions of the lexicographers
substantially agree that a military expedition is a journey or
voyage by a company or body of persons, having the position
or character of soldiers, for a specific warlike purpose; also
the body and its outfit; and that a military enterprise is a
martial undertaking, involving the idea of a bold, arduous
and hazardous attempt. The word "enterprise" is somewhat
broader than the word "expedition" ; and although the words
are synonymously used, it would seem that under the rule
that its every word should be presumed to have some force
and effect, the word "enterprise" was employed to give a
slightly wider scope to the statute.
The phrase "military expedition or enterprise" has been
variously construed by the District Courts, but apparent differences in expression may be largely attributable to the differences in the facts under consideration in the particular case.
In United States v. O'Sullivan, 2 Whart. Crim. Law, § 2802,
4th ed. note, Judge Judson. charged the jury that before they
could "convict on this indictment, it must be proved to their
satisfaction that the expedition or enterprise was in its character military; or, in other words, it must have been shown
by competent proof that the design, the end, the aim and the
purpose of the expedition, or enterprise, was some military
service, some attack or invasion of another people or country,
State or colony as a military force.

.

.

But any expe-

dition or enterprise in matters of commerce, or of business of
a civil nature, unattended by a design of an attack, invasion
or conquest, is wholly legal, and is not an expedition or an
enterprise within this act. . . . The term 'expedition' is
used to signify a march or voyage with martial or hostile
intentions. The term 'enterprise' means an undertaking of
hazard, an arduous attempt."
Judge Maxey in United States v. Ylanez, 53 Fed. Rep.
536, concurred in this view and further said: "This statute
does not require any particular number of men to band together to constitute the expedition or enterprise one of a mili-

WIBORG v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

tary character. There may be divisions, brigades and regiments, or there may be companies or squads of men. Mere
numbers do not conclusively fix and stamp the character of
the expedition as military or otherwise. A few men may
be deluded with the belief of their ability to overturn an existing government or empire, and, laboring under such deluThe proof
sion, they may enter upon the enterprise. .
must establish in your minds the fact that the expedition or
enterprise was of a military character; and when evidence
shows that the end and object were hostile to or forcible
against the Republic of Mexico, then it would be, to all intents
and purposes, a military expedition.
.
Evidence showing that the end and objects were hostile to or forcible against
a nation at peace with the United States characterizes it, to
all intents and purposes, as a military expedition or enterprise."
Judge Brawley, in United tate8 v. Hu 'hes, not yet reported, applied the test suggested by Mr. Hall as to capability of proximate combination of the uncombined elements
of an expedition into an organized whole; and he said in
reference to the passengers in that case: "But if after they
got aboard they took the arms from the boxes, and organized
into a company or organization, if they were drilled or went
through the manual of arms under the leadership or direction
of one man or more, if they themselves became a military
organization by reason of such coming together, and of such
drill or instruction, then from that time forth they would be
a military organization or enterprise within the meaning of
this statute."
In United Stateg v. Pena, 69 Fed. IRep. 983, Judge Wales,
and in United Stats v. Hart, not yet reported, Judge Brown,
of the Southern District of New York, considered the statute
as exacting a high degree of organization, but Judge Brown
said : "I do not say that in order to constitute a military expedition to be 'carried on from this country,' as the statute
reads, it must be complete at the start, or possess all the elements of a military body. It is sufficient if there was a combination by the men for that purpose, with the agreement and

652

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

the intention of the body that embarks that it should become
a military body before reaching the scene of action. Such
a combination and agreement, if means for effecting it were
provided, followed by embarcation in pursuance of the agreement, would show such a partial execution of the design on
our soil, as to bring the case within our statute, as 'a military
enterprise begun and carried on from the United States.'"
It is argued that as persons are not prohibited from going
abroad for the purpose of enlisting in the service of a foreign
army; and as the transportation of arms, ammunition and
munitions of war from this country to any other foreign
country is not unlawful, 3 Whart. Int. Law Dig. § 388 et 8eq.;
The Itata, 15 U. S. App. 1, and authorities cited; therefore no
offence was committed in the transportation of these men, the
arms and munitions; and reference is made to an opinion of
Mr. Secretary Fish on this subject during the Franco-German
war of 1870. A statement of that matter is given in HEall's
Rights and Duties of Neutrals, § 22, and in a letter of Sir Ed-ward Thornton to Lord Granville, dated September 26, 1870,
61 State Papers, 1870-71, p. 822, and elsewhere. It seems
to have been an informal communication to the Prussian Minister, who had complained of the fact that the transatlantic
steamer Lafayette was carrying a large cargo of arms and
ammunition for sale to the French, while at the same time
she was carrying several hundred French passengers, all of
whom, as was generally supposed, intended to enlist in the
army of France on their arrival. These passengers, however,
appear to have been all travelling as individuals without any
concert of action, and they had no access to the arms and
ammunition any more than an ordinary passenger on an ocean
steamer has access to any part of the cargo. Sir Edward
Thornton wrote that "Mr. Fish replied to the District Attorney that he was to be guided by the neutrality laws of the
United States, and that with regard to the ship it could not
be alleged that she was intended for hostile purposes against
North Germany. As for the arms and ammunition, they
were articles of a legitimate commerce, with which the
United States would not interfere, although the vessel might

WIBOIG v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

run the risk of being detained by the cruisers of 'North Germany on her voyage to France."
The district judge ruled nothing to the contrary and
charged the jury in this case that it was not a crime or offence
against the United States under the neutrality laws of this
country for individuals to leave the country with intent to enlist in foreign military service, nor was it an offence against
the United States to transport persons out of this country and
to land them in foreign countries when such persons had an
intent to enlist in foreign armies; that it was not an offence
against the laws of the United States to transport arms,
ammunition and munitions of war from this country to any
foreign country, whether they were to be used in war or not;
and that it was not an offence against the laws of the United
States to transport persons intending to enlist in foreign
armies and munitions of war on the same trip. But he said
that if the persons referred to had combined and organized in
this country to go to Cuba and there make war on the government, and intended when they reached Cuba to join the
insurgent army and thus enlist in its service, and the arms
were taken along for their use, that would constitute a military expedition, and the transporting of such a body from
this country for such a purpose would be an offence against
the statute. The judge also charged the jury as follows:
"In passing on the first question, it is necessary to understand what constitutes a military expedition within the
meaning of this statute. For the purposes of this case, it is
sufficient to say that any combination of men organized here
to go to Cuba to make war upon its government, provided
with arms and ammunition, we being at peace with Cuba, constitutes a military expedition. It is not necessary that the
men shall be drilled, put in uniform, or prepared for efficient
service, nor that they shall have been organized as or according to the tactics or rules which relate to what is known as
infantry, artillery or cavalry. It is sufficient that they shall
have combined and organized here to go there and make war
on a foreign government, and to have provided themselves
with the means of doing so. I say Iprovided themselves with

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

the means of doing so,' because the evidence here shows that
the men were so provided. Whether such provision, as by
arming, and so forth, is necessary need not be decided in this
case. I will say, however, to counsel that were that question
required to be decided I should hold that it is not necessary.
"Nor is it important that they intended to make war as an
independent body or in connection with others. Where men
go without combitation and organization to enlist as individuals in a foreign army, they do not constitute such military
expedition, and the fact that the vessel carrying them might
carry arms as merchandise would not be important."
It appears to us that these views of the district judge were
correct as applied to the evidence before him. This body of
men went on board a tug loaded with arms; were taken by
it thirty or forty miles and out to sea; met a steamer outside
the three mile limit by prior arrangement; boarded her with
the arms, opened the boxes and distributed the arms among
themselves; drilled to some extent; were apparently officered;
and then, as preconcerted, disembarked to effect an armed
landing on the coast of Cuba. The men and the arms
and ammunition came together; the arms and ammunition were under the control of the men; the elements of the
expedition were not only "capable of proximate combination
into an organized whole," but were combined or in process of
combination; there was concert of action; they had their
own pilot to the common destination; they landed themselves
and their munitions of war together by their own efforts. It
may be that they intended to separate when they reached
the insurgent headquarters, but the evidence tended to show
that until that time they intended to stand together and
defend themselves if necessary. From that evidence the jury
had a right to find that this was a military expedition or
enterprise under the statute, and we think the court properly
instructed them on the subject. This conclusion disposes of
most of the errors assigned to the instructions given, qualified
or refused. Some of the points requested on defendants'
behalf were incorrect; some were covered by the general
charge; and others were properly qualified.

WIBO G v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

2. The second material question is, whether if a military
expedition or enterprise was made out, the court erred in its
instructions in respect of defendants' knowledge or notice of
the facts. And this involves the jurisdictional question which
is raised by the exception to the qualification of the twelfth
point. In that qualification and elsewhere, the district judge
specifically and clearly instructed the jury that although this
was a military expedition or enterprise, nevertheless the defendants were not criminally responsible unless they were
aware of its nature before they sailed from Philadelphia.
"To convict the defendants," said the district judge, "it is
necessary that the government shall have satisfied your minds
beyond a reasonable doubt that this was a military enterprise,
and that the defendants when they started knew it. Otherwise they are not guilty." "The question, therefore, is: Did
the defendants understand that they were to carry this expedition, and had provided for it, and understand what the
expedition was before leaving here [Philadelphia]?" It is
true that the expedition started in the Southern District of
N~ew York, and did not come into immediate contact with
defendants at any point within the jurisdiction of the United
States, as the Horsa was a foreign vessel; but the Horsa's
preparation for sailing and the taking aboard of the two boats
at Philadelphia constituted a preparation of means for the
expedition or enterprise, and if defendants knew of the enterprise when they participated in such preparation, then they
committed the statutory crime upon American soil, and in the
Eastern District of Pennsylvania, where they were indicted
and tried.
The jurisdictional point was again presented by the motion
in arrest, but its disposition calls for no further observations.
We repeat that on the second material question, namely,
whether the defendants aided the expedition with knowledge
of the facts, the jury were instructed that they must acquit
unless satisfied beyond reasonable doubt that defendants, when
they left Philadelphia, had knowledge of the expedition and
its objects and had arranged and provided for its transporta-

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

tion. We hold that defendants have no adequate ground of
complaint on this branch of the case.
3. An exception was taken to the statement of the court
that the men were armed. The court said: "They were
armed, having rifles and cannon, and were provided with
ammunition and other supplies." This statement was based
on uncontradicted testimony, and occurring as it did in a
recapitulation of the evidence., no rule of law being incorrectly
stated and the matters of fact being specifically submitted to
the determination of the jury, we do not regard the exception
as tenable. Baltimore & Potomac Railroadv. Fifth Baptit
Church, 137 U. S. 568, 574.
4. Objection is also made because the court expressed its
opinion that this was a military expedition. But what the
court said was that this "would seem to the court to be free
from reasonable doubt. The question, however, is one for
your determination alone, and I submit it to you as such,
reminding you that the responsibility of deciding it rests
upon you only. If you find that this was not a military
expedition, or, rather, if you are not fully satisfied that it
was, your verdict will be for defendants without going
further." Clearly the observation of the court thus guarded
did not so trespass on the province of the jury as to constitute reversible error. Simmons v. United States, 142 U. S.
148, 155.
5. Again, it is urged that the court erred, when referring to
the captain's testimony that "he was ignorant of the service
required of him until he reached the point near Barnegat,"
in saying: "You must judge whether he should be believed
or not, and from all the evidence must determine whether the
defendants left here with the knowledge of, and provision for,
what they were about to do." No exception was taken to
this part of the charge ; but if there had been, we cannot say
that the trial judge was not justified in that remark in view
of all the facts and circumstances.
Nor was any exception taken to the closing observations by
the court as to the importance of faithfulness in the execution
of the law, although they are now assigned for error. We see

WIBORG v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

in them nothing which could properly be regarded as prejudicial to the defendants.
6. Other assignments of error relate to the admissibility of
declarations of members of the party, during the voyage, as
to their destination. One of the witnesses for the prosecution
testified on cross-examination "that he had spoken to a couple
of those young fellows there, and they said they were going to
Cuba," On redirect examination he was asked: "Did they
tell you where they were going? " The answer, which was
objected to, was: "They told me they were going to Cuba.
They did not say what they were going to do." It was uncontroverted in the case that the party meant to go and did
go to Cuba, and the evidence was not material. Another witness for the government was asked: "Q. Did you have any
talk with any of those men? Objected to unless it was in the
presence of these defendants. Objection overruled. Exception
by defendants. A. Yes, sir. I was going in the forecastle
one night and he told us, 'I go down to Cuba to fight.' Q.
To fight whom? A. The Spanish."
There was no objection to the second question, or to either
answer, and no motion to strike out. It does not appear who
made the statement or how many persons were present, or
that defendants were not present. These assignments are
without merit.
There was other evidence of declarations of members of the
party as to their purposes, and the district judge in commenting thereon said that: "If these men were in combination to
do an unlawful act, what was said by any of them at the time
in carrying out their purpose was evidence against them all as
to the nature of the expedition," auld to this an exception was
taken. The general rule was stated in American Fur Co. v.
United Stat, 2 Pet. 358, 365, by Mr. Justice Washington,
speaking for the court, that "where two or more persons are
associated together for the same illegal purpose, any act or
declaration of one of the parties, in reference to the common
object, and forming a part of the re8 getw, may be given in
evidence against the others." The declarations must be made
in furtherance of the common object, or must constitute a part
voL. ci2xr-42

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

of the res gestic of acts done in such furtherance. Assuming a
secret combination between the party and the captain or
officers of the Horsa had been proven, then, on the question
whether such combination was lawful or not, the motive and
intention, declarations of those engaged in it explanatory of
acts done in furtherance of its object came within the general
rule and were competent. St. Clairv. United States, 154: U. S.
131; People v. Davis, 56 N. Y. 95, 102; Lincoln v. Cljflin,
7 Wall. 132, 139; 1 Greenl. Ev. § 111 ; Starkie Ev. 466.
The extent to which evidence of this kind is admissible is
much in the discretion of the trial court, and we do not
consider that that discretion was abused in this instance.
a'une v. United States, 159 U. S. 590, 592.
7. No motion or request was made that the jury be instructed to find for defendants or either of them. Where an
exception to a denial of such a motion or request is duly saved,
it is open to the court to consider whether there is any evidence to sustain the verdict, though not to pass upon its weight
or sufficiency. And although this question was not properly
raised, yet if a plain error was committed in a matter so
absolutely vital to defendants, we feel ourselves at liberty to
correct it.
The Horsa was bound for Jamaica, and her course carried
her along the coast of Cuba for about six hours. She took on
board at Philadelphia two boats entered on the manifest as for
Port Antonio, but intended for and ultimately devoted to the
use of the party she transported. The captain received at
the wharf written instructions, which he did not produce on
the trial, and says he did not keep when he left the vessel,
but in accordance with which he went north off Barnegat,
anchored outside the three mile limit, and awaited orders.
The inference was not unjustifiable that he was thus and then
informed that safety required that whatever was to take place
off Barnegat should take place beyond the jurisdiction of the
United States, in other words, that a transgression of-the laws
of the United 'States was contemplated. The Horsa was
boarded on the high seas off Barnegat as heretofore described,
and the captain testified that he did not regard the occurrence

'WIBORG v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

as anything unusual or important. But the firemen said that
they went to the chief engineer, when these men came
aboard, and told him they would not go along. "We won't
go down there and get shot." "We did not sign for that."
The chief engineer bade them keep quiet, and the captain
"told them if anybody had to hang for this I would be the
man to hang for it. I told them they had better go below
and mind their own business." The written instructions the
captain there received were not produced, but he said be was
to take the men and whatever they had and let them off when
told to do so, delivering the two boats shipped at Philadelphia, and the two shipped from the tug, to them as soon as
called for; and that this did not strike him as singular. The
evidence shows that the nature of the enterprise was apparent
at this time, and the jury may not unreasonably have inferred
that the captain received the men and their arms, entered
upon the hazards of the voyage, and quieted the complaints of
the firemen, with an equanimity springing from a mind previously made up on the subject. We deem it unnecessary to
go over the evidence. We cannot say as matter of law that
there was no evidence tending to sustain the verdict against
the captain.
But we think the case as to Petersen and Johansen stands
on different ground, and that we may properly take notice of
what we believe to -be a plain error, although it was not duly
excepted to. These men were the mates of the vessel, and
they proceeded on the voyage under the captain's orders.
This would not excuse them if there were proof of guilty
knowledge or participation on their part in assisting a military expedition or enterprise when they left Philadelphia.
We are of opinion that adequate proof to that effect is not
shown by the record, and that as the case stood the jury
should have been instructed to acquit them. The captain
testified that the mates "had nothing to do with this ship
or with its business. They listened to my orders; they were
under my orders. I was the master of that vessel I am
responsible for all that was done." The order he received to
go north and await orders beyond the three mile limit does

OCTOBER TERAI, 1895.
Dissenting Opinion: Harlan, J.

not appear to have been communicated to them ; and whatever they must have known after the Horsa was boarded off
Barnegat, there is nothing sufficiently justifying a presumption of knowledge when the vessel left the wharf.
It is not necessary to enlarge upon the public importance of
the neutrality laws. This case is a criminal case arising on an
indictment under a section of the IRevised Statutes, and we
dispose of it on what we deem to be the proper construction
of that section, and after subjecting the correctness of the
rulings of the court below to that careful examination which
the discharge of our duty required.
The judgment against defendant Wiborg is aflrmed; the
judgment against defendants Petersen and Johansen is
reversed, and the cause remanded with instructions to set
aside the verdict and grant a new trialas to them.
MI . JusTIcE HAwi

dissenting.

I concur with my brethren in holding that the judgment
against Petersen and Johansen should be reversed, and a new
trial ordered as to them.
But I am of opinion that the judgment against Wiborg
should also be reversed. It is conceded that the men on the
tug were received on board the Horsa at a point off Barnegat
which was more than three miles from our shore. It is clear
from the evidence that at the time his vessel left Philadelphia,
and previous to his receiving those men on board, Wiborg
had no knowledge of the purpose for which the charterer
ordered him, after he passed the Breakwater, "to proceed
north near Barnegat and wait further orders." The movements of the vessel were under the control of the charterer.
Wiborg was under no legal obligation to inquire from the
charterer why the Horsa was ordered to that point, or what
were the orders he was likely to receive after arriving there.
His duty was to obey the orders of the charterer, unless such
orders obviously contemplated a breach of the laws of this
country. The only evidence in the case bearing upon the
question whether Wiborg knew, when he left Philadelphia, of

WIBORG v. UNITED STATES.
Dissenting Opinion: Harlan, J.

any arrangement for his vessel, after it passed beyond the territory and jurisdiction of the United States, to receive men
destined for Cuba, was that given by himself. And he distinctly swore that when he started from Philadelphia he (lid
not know that "we were going to take these people and their
goods on the Horsa." There was not the slightest ground in
the evidence to suppose that he ever had any communication
with those people, or that he ever saw them, before they came
on his vessel. Those persons had, of course, arranged with the
charterer for passage on the Horsa. But the charterer did not
communicate the fact of such an arrangement to the captain of
the vessel while he was within the territory and jurisdiction of
the United States. The direction that he should receive the
men and their goods on board came to him, from the charterer, when he was not within the territory or jurisdiction of the
United States. He cannot, therefore, be said to have provided
or prepared, "within the territory or jurisdiction of the United
States," any means for the expedition or enterprise against
the territory or dominion of Spain. Under the interpretation
placed upon the statute by the government, the charterer did
provide for such means. But, curiously enough, the charterer
was not indicted. The prosecution is against the officers of
the vessel, no one of whom, according to the proof, had any
knowledge, at the time the Rorsa left Philadelphia, nor while
it was within the jurisdiction of the United States, that the
charterer had arranged that the vessel, after it got beyond
the jurisdiction of the United States, should receive on board
individuals destined for Cuba, and who intended, after they
arrived there, to engage in the struggle to overthrow the
authority of Spain in that island.
Independently of the view just expressed, this was not, I
think, a military expedition or enterprise within the meaning
of the statute. It had none of the features of such an expedition or enterprise. There was no commanding officer, whose
orders were recognized and enforced. It was, at most, a
small company of persons, no one of whom recognized the
authority of another, although all desired the independence
of Cuba, and had the purpose to reach that island, and engage,

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Syllabus.

not as a body, but as individuals, in some form, in the civil
war there pending - a loose, unorganized body, of very small
dimensions, and without any surroundings that would justify
its being -regarded as a military expedition or enterprise to be
carried on from this country.

UNITED STATES v. BALL.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES FOR THE

EASTERN DISTRICT OF TEXAS.

No. 461. Argued March 26, 189. -Decided May 25, 1896.
A general verdict of acquittal, in a court having jurisdiction of the cause
and of the defendant, upon the issue of not guilty to an indictment undertaking to charge murder, and not objected to before verdict as Insufficient In that respect, is a bar to a subsequent indictment against him
for the same killing.
A verdict In a case submitted to the jury on Saturday may be received and
the jury discharged on Sunday.
A defendant in a criminal case, who procures a verdict and judgment
against him to be set aside by the court, may be tried anew upon the
same or another Indictment for the same offence of which he was convicted.
Whether defendants jointly indicted shall be tried together or separately
rests in the sound discretion of the trial court.
After a witness In support of a prosecution has testified, on cross-examination, that he had, at his own expense, employed another attorney to assist
the attorney for the government, the question "How much do you pay
him ?" may be excluded as immaterial.
Upon a trial for murder by shooting, in different parts of the body, with a
gun loaded with buckshot, and after the introduction of conflicting evidence upon the question whether a gun found In the defendant's possession would scatter buckshot, it is within the discretion of the court to
decline to permit the gun to be taken out and shot off, in the presence of
a deputy marshal, in order to test how it threw such shot.
An indictment for murder, which alleges that A, at a certain time and. place,
by shooting with a loaded gun, inflicted upon the body of B "a mortal
wound, of which mortal wound the said B did languish, and languishing
did then and there Instantly die," unequivocally alleges that B died of
the mortal wound inflicted by A, and that B died at the time and place
at which the mortal wound was inflicted.

