MISSOURI, KANSAS & TEXAS RAILWAY v. COOK.

491

Statement of the Case.

statement that the issues made by the pleadings and the silence
of the testimony in respect to the prior situation narrowed
their inquiry to the single matter of the condition at the time
of the accident.
It must be confessed that this case is not entirely clear, and
yet, considering the entire record, we are not prepared to
hold that there was error such as would justify this court in

disturbing the judgment.
It is, therefore,

MISSOURI, KANSAS AND TEXAS RAILWAY COMPANY v. COOK.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF KANSAS.
No. 178. Argued and submitted March 24, 1896. -Decided May 25, 1896.

By the filing of the map of the line surveyed prior to December 24, 1867, for
the route of the railroad now known as the Missouri, Kansas and Texas
Rallway, the route of the road was definitely fixed within the intent and
meaning of the act of July 261 1866, c. 270, 14 Stat. 289, granting lands
-to aid in its construction; and while the principal object in filing the
map was to secure the withdrawal of the lands granted, it also operated
to definitely locate the line and limits of the right of way.
The grant of the lands and the grant of the right of way were alike
grants inpresenti,and stood on the same footing; so that, before deftnite location, all persons acquiring any portion of the public lands after
the passage of the act took the same subject to the right of way for the
proposed road.
The rights of the settler in this case were acquired after the line had been
located, and were not affected by the subsequent act of the company in
changing the location.

Tins was an action of ejectment brought by the Missouri,
Kansas and Texas Railway Company, a corporation of the
State of Kansas, and the Missouri Pacific Railway Company,
a corporation of Missouri, in the District Court of Labette
County, Kansas, August 17, 1887, against J. B. Cook and L. H.
Printz, to recover possession of certain real estate situated in

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Statement of the Case.

the city of Chetopa in that county, and described in the petition. Defendants filed a general denial. The case was tried
by the court on an agreed statement of facts, and judgment
rendered for defendants. Plaintiffs thereupon took the case
on error to the Supreme Court of Kansas, by which the judgment of the District Court was affirmed. 47 Kansas, 216.
Thereupon a writ of error was taken out from this court.
The agreed statement was as follows:
"1. The Missouri, Kansas and Texas Railway Company
was on the 25th day of September, 1865, duly organized as
a corporation under the name of the Union Pacific Railway
Company, Southern branch, and on the 3d day of February,
A.D. 1870, its name was duly changed and made the Missouri, Kansas and Texas Railway Company, and it is the railway company referred to in the act of Congress, approved Tuly
26, 1866, entitled an act granting lands to the State of Kansas
to aid in the construction of a southern branch of the Union
Pacific Railway and Telegraph from Fort Riley, Kansas, to
Fort Smith, Arkansas.
"2. The acceptance of the terms, conditions, and impositions
of said act bythe said Union Pacific Railway Company, Southern branch, was signified in writing, under the corporate seal of
said company, duly executed pursuant to the direction of its
board of directors first had and obtained, which acceptance
was made and deposited with the Secretary of the Interior
within one year after the passage of said act.
"3. The land in the petition described is a part of the lands
known as the Osage ceded lands granted to the United States
by the treaty between the United States of America and the
Great and Little Osage Indians proclaimed January 21, 1867.
"4. Prior to the 24th day of December, 1867, a line was
surveyed for the route of said railroad by G. MN.Walker, then
chief engineer of said company, which was the line from which
the lands mentioned in stipulation No. 7 herein were withdrawn from market, but that line did not touch the southwest quarter of section thirty-four (34), township thirty-four
(34), range twenty-one (21), which includes the land described
in plaintiffs' petition in this case, and afterwards and between

MISSOURI, KANSAS & TEXAS RAILWAY v. COOK.

493

Statement of the Case.

May 1, 1870, and June 6, 1870, said company located its road
on the line where now operated, and built same in substantial
compliance with said act of Congress, but the route of said
road on its present location has never been approved by the
President of the United States, unless such approval is shown
by the other facts herein admitted.
"5. The premises in plaintiffs' petition demanded lie wholly
within one hundred feet of the centre line of the main track
of the railway so built and constructed as aforesaid, the centre
line of said main track being the centre of the right of way
of the railroad company.
"6. On the first day of December, 1880, the said Missouri,
Kansas and Texas Railway Company leased said railway to
said Missouri Pacific Railway Company, which has, since possessed and operated the same as such lessee.
"7. Upon the completion of said railway through said
Osage ceded land the President of the United States issued to
said Missouri, Kansas and Texas Railway Company patents
under said act of Congress, approved July 26, 1866, for the
alternate sections of land designated by odd numbers to the
extent of five alternate sections per mile on each side of said
railroad, which are the same patents set aside in the case of
The Misouri,Kans" and Texa8 Railway Company v. The
United Slateq, reported in 92 U. S.733, 760.
"8. The quarter section, including the land in question, was
entered and purchased by one W. A. Hodges from the Government of the United States on October 9, 1869, and a certificate in due form was on that day, by the proper officers,
issued to him therefor, and thereafter and on November 1,
1870, a patent in due form was issued therefor pursuant to the
said entry, by the Government of the United States to said
patentee, Hodges, which was duly signed and executed, and a
perfect chain of title from said Hodges, patentee, now runs to
and terminates in said defendant, J. B. Cook, and he is the
owner thereof, unless the same is owned by plaintiffs by virtue
of the facts herein admitted and the law governing the same.
Defendant Printz is in possession of the premises in controversy as the tenant of defendant Cook.

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

"9. None of the land in dispute lies within fifty feet'of the
line of the centre of the main track of said railroad, nor does
defendant claim any part of the strip of land within fifty feet
on either side of the centre of said track.
"The plaintiff, at the time of constructing said road, erected
a depot building on its right of way, and the land on which
said building stands is adjacent to the land in dispute, which
said depot has been used all the time since its erection for the
purpose of receiving freight and passengers for shipment, nor
does defendant claim any ground on which side tracks of said
railroads are now located."
-Mr. James Hagerman and Mr.[. N. &dgwick, for plaintff
in error, submitted on their brief.
.Mr. Nelson Cae for defendant in error.
Mr- CIIF JusTicE FuLLEn, after stating the case, delivered

the opinion of the court.
Plaintiff claimed the premises in question as a part of its
right of way, under and by virtue of the act of Congress approved July 26, 1866, entitled "An act granting lands to the
State of Kansas to aid in the, construction of a Southern
branch of the Union Pacific Railway and Telegraph, from
Fort Riley, Kansas, to Fort Smith, Arkansas." 14 Stat. 289,
c. 270.
By this act five alternate sections of land per mile on each
side of the road were granted to the State of Kansas for the
use and benefit of the railroad company, and in case it
appeared that the United States had "when the line of said
road is definitely located, sold any section, or any part thereof,
granted as aforesaid, or that the right of preemption or
homestead settlement has attached to the same, or that the
same has been reserved by the United States for any purposes
whatever," then other lands might be selected in lieu thereof:
"Provided, That any and all lands heretofore reserved to the
United States by any act of Congress, or in any other manner

MISSOURI, KANSAS & TEXAS RAILWAY v. COOK.

495

Opinion of the Court.

by competent authority, for the purpose of aiding in any
object of internal improvement or other purpose whatever,
be, and the same are hereby, reserved and excepted from the
operation of this act, except so far as it may be found
necessary to locate the route of said road through such reserved lands, in which case the right of way, two hundred
feet in width, is hereby granted, subject to the approval of the
President of the United States."
The fourth section read: "That as soon as said company
shall file with the Secretary of the Interior maps of its line,
designating the route thereof, it shall be the duty of said
Secretary to withdraw from the market the lands granted by
this act, in such manner as may be best calculated to effect
the purposes of this act and subserve the public interest."
By the sixth section it was provided: "That the right of
way through the public lands be, and the same is hereby,
granted to said Pacific Railroad Company, Southern branch,
its successors and assigns, for the construction of a railroad
as proposed: . . . Said way is granted to said railroad
to the extent of one hundred feet in width on each side of
said road where it may pass through the public domain; also
all necessary ground for station buildings, workshops, depots,
machine shops, switches, side tracks, turn-tables and water
stations."
The land in question was a part of the land ceded to the
United States by the Great and Little Osage Indians by the
treaty proclaimed January 21, 1867, 14 Stat. 687.
From the statement of facts it appears that prior to December 24, 1867, a line was surveyed for the route of the railroad
by the chief engineer of the company, which was the line
from which the granted lands were withdrawn from market,
but that line did not touch the quarter section embracing the
land described in the petition. The precise date of the filing
of the map and profile of this survey does not appear, but this
is not material.
In the instances of many of the land grants, the acts contemplated a preliminary designation of the general route by
map filed in the Department of the Interior, upon which the

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

lands were withdrawn, but the grants only took effect on a
subsequent designation of the definite location of the line of
the road. Kansas and PacijFt Railroad v. Dunreyer, 113
U. S. 629; United States v. Southern Paci§c Rail-road, 146
U. S.570. But this grant made no provision for any preliminary surveys and maps, and the only map provided for was
that mentioned in section four, being, as stated, a map of "its
line designating the route thereof." We think that by the
filing of the map of the line surveyed the route was definitely
fixed, within the intent and meaning of the act, and while
the principal object in filing the map was to secure the withdrawal of the lands granted, it also operated, and could not
otherwise than operate, to definitely locate the line and limits
of the right of way. And this view is sustained by previous
adjudications of this court.
By the act of Congress of July 23, 1866, c. 212, entitled
"An act for a grant of lands to the State of Kansas to aid in
the construction of the Northern Kansas Railroad and Telegraph," 14 Stat. 210, a grant of lands to the State of Kansas
for the benefit of the St. Joseph and Denver City Railroad
Company was made in substantially the same terms as those
of the grant of July 26, 1866, under consideration.
In Van WIycA v. Knevals, 106 U. S.360, this act came before this court for construction, and the rights of the parties
depended on the time of the definite location of the road.
Knevals, the complainant below, claimed through the company, and contended that the filing of the map with the
Secretary of the Interior was the location of the road, and
Mr. Justice Field, speaking for the court, said: "We are of
opinion that the position of the complainant is the correct
one. The route must be considered as 'definitely fixed' when
it has ceased to be the subject of change at the volition of
the company. Until the map is filed with the Secretary of
the Interior, the company is at liberty to adopt such a route
as it may deem best, after an examination of the ground has
disclosed the feasibility and advantages of different lines.
But when a route is adopted by the company and a map
designating it is filed with the Secretary of the Interior and

MISSOURI, KANSAS & TEXAS RAILWAY v. COOK.

497

Opinion of the Court.

accepted by that officer, the route is established; it is, in the
language of the act, 'definitely fixed,' and cannot be the subject of future change, so as to affect the grant, except upon
legislative consent. No further action is required of the
company to establish the route." Walden v. Knevals, 114
U. S. 373. And this was in accordance with the ruling
of Mr. Justice Miller, on circuit, in Knevala v. Hyde, 6 Fed.
Rep. 651.
The same conclusion necessarily followed in respect of the
right of way. The grant of the lands and the grant of the
right of way were alike grants in prsenti and stood on
the same footing, so that, before definite location, all persons
acquiring any portion of the public lands after the passage
of the act took the same subject to the right of way for the
proposed road. The easement and the lands were afloat
until by definite location precision was given to the grant
and they became permanently fixed. Railroad Co. v. Baldwin, 103 U. S. 426.
After the line had thus been definitely located, on October 9, 1869, the quarter section containing the real estate in
controversy was entered at the government land office by
W. A. Hodges, to whom the proper certificate was that day
issued, under a resolution of Congress, approved April 10,
1869, 16 Stat. 55, in favor of bona j&e settlers residing on
any portion of the land acquired from the Osage Indians by
the treaty proclaimed January 21, 1867. Between May 1
and June 6, 1870, the railroad company ran a second line, on
which it built its road between those two dates, and entered
into occupancy of a right of way one hundred feet in width.
This line ran something like a mile east of that of definite location and through the quarter section in question, but none of
the real estate in dispute lies within the right of way so occupied. On November 1, 1810, a patent was issued in due form
to Hodges pursuant to his entry, and defendant Cook (under
whom defendant Printz was in possession as tenant) holds
by a perfect chain of title from Hodges. The issuing of
the patent shows that the land department had found the
existence of all the conditions, such as actual occupancy of
voL. cLIxm---32

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

and residence on the premises and like matters, requisite
thereto, and it took effect by relation as of the date of the
certificate. It follows that as the rights of the settler were
acquired after the right of way of the road had been definitely located, he was not subject to any risk which others
may incur who purchase while the loction remains floating
and uncertain, and he could not be deprived of rights which
had thus attached by the subsequent action of the company.
And his grantees stand in his shoes.
We need not consider what effect, if any, deviations of the
kind in question might have upon the grant, Van Tyck v.
JEneva8, supra; 16 Ops. Attys. Gen. 457; 6 L. D. 209; nor
is it necessary to discuss the contention that a railroad company, by once locating its road, has exhausted its authority
and cannot relocate it on a new line without additional legislative permission so to do, or the effect of the statute of
Kansas, which allows railroad companies to change the location. of their tracks. Whatever the rights of the company
in this regard, such a change could not affect the rights of
third parties, which had in the meantime lawfully intervened.
WTashington b Idaho Railroadv. Ccur d'AdAene Railway & c.,
160 U. S. -77.
The inquiry does not arise as to how the railroad company
acquired the one hundred feet which it occupies for right of
way. It may have been purchased, or acquired by condemnation or by gift. We dispose of the case on the ground
that on the record before us the state courts did not err in
holding that plaintiff was not entitled to recover the premises
in controversy, which do not embrace the right of way actually occupied by the company.
Judgment afirmed.

