OCTOBER TER31, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

TELFENER v. RUSS.
PETITION FOR REHEARING.
No. 462. Presented May 7,1896.-Denied May 18, 1696.
Petitions for rehearing of a case decided March 30, 1896, 162 U. S. 170, are
denied.

Two petitions for rehearing were received.
2r. Clarence H. .Miller and .Mr. Josepl

Wheeler for peti-

tioner.
MR. JusTIcE FIELD

delivered the opinion of the court.

It is firmly established that the State of Texas cannot, in
opposition to its wishes, be compelled to accept an office survey constructed by merely copying and adopting the fieldnotes of a previous survey made on the ground for other
parties by other surveyors, and that such office surveys are
not sufficient to enable a purchaser to enforce an executory
contract for the sale of public lands under the act of July 14,
1879, as amended March 11, 1881. Bacon v. Texas, 2 Tex.
Civ. App. 692, and cases cited.
We adhere to the ruling that error was committed by the
Circuit Court in the manner in which this matter of the necessity of surveys on the ground was left to the jury. We also
intimated that it seemed from the evidence, so far as before
us, that the surveys in this instance were not in fact made on
the ground, but that was not essential to the decision.
Some expressions in our former opinion implying that payment was a prerequisite to recovery are complained of. What
we intended to say was that under the pleadings, and on
plaintiff's contention as it seemed to be pressed, it was necessary that he should show that he had so far complied with
the law as to have obtained a vested right to patents as against
the State on making the required payments in the required
time, and this we thought he had failed to do as to all the
tracts, it being borne in mind that each tract must be treated

MURRAY v. LOUISIANA.
Syllabus.

as a separate purchase under the statute, as held in Bacon v.
Tea, 8up'ra,though this contract, as between the parties, was
an entire contract for the transfer of rights in the many tracts
necessary to make up the agreed number of acres.
Petition denied.

MURRAY v. LOUISIANA.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF LOUISIANA.
No. 718. Argued and submitted April 16, 1896. -Decided

May 18, 1895.

Congress has not, by Rev. Stat. ยง 641, authorized a removal of a prosecution from a state court upon an allegation that jury commissioners or
other subordinate officers had, without authority derived from the constitution and laws of the State, excluded colored citizens from juries
because of their race. Said section does not embrace a case in which
a right is denied by judicial action during a trial, or in the sentence,
or in the mode of executing the sentence. For such denials arising
from judicial action after a trial commenced the remedy lies in the revisory power of the higher courts of the State, and ultimately in the
power of review which this court may exercise over their judgments
whenever rights, privileges or immunities claimed under the Constitution or laws of the United States are withheld or violated. The denial
of, orinabilityto enforce in the judicial tribunals of a State, rights secured
by any law providing for the equal civil rights of citizens of the United
States, to which ยง 641 refers, and on account of which a criminal prosecution may be removed from a state court, Is primarily, if not exclusively, a denial of such rights, or an inability to enforce them, resulting
from the constitution or laws of the State, rather than a denial first
made manifest at and during the trial of a case.
Nfeal v. Delaware, 103 U. S. 370, and Gibson v. Mississipi, 162 U. S. 565,
affirmed to the above points.
Rulings of the court below refusing writs of subpoena duces tecum held to
work no Injury to defendant.
The state court, on the trial of the plaintiff in error for murder, permitted
to be read In evidence the evidence of a witness taken in the presence of
the accused at a preliminary hearing, read to and signed by the witness,
the prosecuting officer alleging that the witness was beyond the jurisdiction of the court, and his attendance could not be procured. The bill of
exceptions to its allowance was not presented to the trial judge for signature until two weeks after sentence, after refusal of a new trial, and
after appeal. The record does not disclose the nature or effect of the

