EDWARDS v. BATES COUNTY.
Statement of the Case.

EDWARDS v. BATES COUNTY.
BRMOR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

FOR THE.

WESTERN DISTRICT OF MISSOURI.
No. 259. Submitted April 29,1896. -Decided

May 18, 1896.

In determining the jurisdictional amount In an action in a Circuit Court of
the United States to recover on a municipal bond, the matured coupons
are to be treated as separable independent promises, and not as interest
due upon the bond.

ON October 5, 1891, plaintiff in error filed his petition to

recover from the defendant an aggregate alleged indebtedness, consisting of the following items:
1. The principal of two bonds for one thousand dollars
each, issued by the defendant on January 18, 1871, with interest from the date of maturity of the bonds (January 18, 1886);
2. The amount of interest coupons on said bonds, due and
payable on the eighteenth day of January, in the years 1873
to 1886, both inclusive, with interest from the maturity of
each coupon; and,
3. Tho principal of seven funded bonds of said county, each
for the sum of one hundred dollars, dated October 1, 1885,
and payable October 1, 1905.
The petition alleged that due notice had been given by the
county, pursuant to an option reserved by it, that it would
redeem said last named bonds at a place named, on the 1st of
July, 1891, and that on that date and at the place designated
said bonds had been duly presented and payment thereof
demanded and refused.
A plea to the jurisdiction was filed on behalf of the defendant, based upon the claim that the matter in controversy.
exclusive of interest and costs, did not exceed the sum or value
of $2000. It was alleged, among other things, that each of the
funded bonds provided on its face that the said county of Bates,
for and on behalf of the township of Mount Pleasant, reserved
the right at its option to redeem the bonds at any time after
five years from the 1st day of October, 1885, in accordance

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Counsel for Plaintiff in Error.

with the conditions printed on the back, which conditions,
among other things, provided for the giving of notice, by
advertisement, of the intention to redeem, and further provided that "if any bond be not presented as required in such
notice, or within thirty days after the date therein fixed,
interest thereon shall cease from said date, but said bond, with
interest accrued to said date, shall be payable upon presentment at the office of the treasurer of Bates County at any
time thereafter."
It was further alleged that the funding bonds in question
had not been presented for payment, and that the purpose of
including them in the suit at bar was merely in aid of an
attempt to confer jurisdiction upon the court over the claim
of plaintiff upon the two one thousand dollar bonds. The
plaintiff filed a reply to the plea to the jurisdiction, and the
issue thereby raised was heard upon an agreed statement of
facts and certain documentary evidence unnecessary to be
specifically stated.
In the agreed statement of facts it was admitted that the
funding bonds in question had hever been presented for payment at the place designated by the contract for the redemption of the same, though said county had on deposit at the
depository named in the advertised notice of intention to
redeem, on said 1st day of July, 1891, and for more than
thirty days thereafter, sufficient funds to pay said bonds,
which funds had been deposited for such special purpose, and
that the county of Bates had in the hands of its county treasurer money sufficient belonging to said township to pay said
bonds at any and all times after said thirty days from said
first day of July, 1891, if they had been presented for payment by the holder thereof.
The trial court sustained the plea, and dismissed the case
for want of jurisdiction. 55 Fed. Rep. 436. The case was
then brought to this court by writ of error.
Mr. T.

.Skinker for plaintiff in error.

No appearance for defendant in error.

EDWARDS v. BATES COUNTY.
Opinion of the Court.
MR. JUSTIE, WHiTE, after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
We are solely concerned in this case in determining whether
or not the Circuit Court possessed jurisdiction over the claim
asserted in the petition. Act of March 3,1891, c. 517, ยง 5.
-From the facts heretofore detailed the following questions
arise:
First. Should the Circuit Court have taken into consideration, for the purpose of ascertaining the adequacy of the
jurisdictional amount, the claim of plaintiff upon the interest
coupons attached to the two one thousand dollar bonds?
Second. Did the court rightly hold that the amount of the
claim upon the funding bonds was not an item "in dispute"
between the parties, and therefore not proper to be taken into
account in determining whether the court possessed jurisdiction?
As to the first point. By the act of Congress of March 3,
1887, c. 373, as amended August 13, 1888, c. 866, 25 Stat. 434,
original jurisdiction was conferred upon Circuit Courts of the
United States, "concurrent with the courts of the several
States, of all suits of a civil nature at common law or in
equity,

.

.

in which there sh4l be a controversy be-

tween citizens of different States in which the matter in dispute exceeds, exclusive of interest and costs, the sum or value
of two thousand dollars."
It is contended that an indebtedness for the face amount of
coupons is an indebtedness for "interest" within the meaning
of the statute.
The nature of a coupon was thus defined in Aurora v. We8t,

7 Wall. 82, where this court said (p. 105):
"Coupons are written contracts for the payment of a definite sum of money, on a given day, and being drawn and
executed in a form and mode for the very purpose that they
may be separated from the bonds, it is held that they are
negotiable, and that a suit may be maintained on them without the necessity of producing the bonds to which they were
attached."

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

Each matured coupon upon a negotiable bond is a separable
promise, distinct from the promises to pay the bond or other
coupons, and gives rise to a separate cause of action. Nesbit
v. Riverside Independent District, 144 U. S. 610. In that
case this court said (p. 619):
"Each matured coupon is a separable promise, and give&
rise to a separate cause of action. It may be detached from
the bond and sold by itself. Indeed, the title to several
matured coupons of the same bond may be in as many different persons, and upon each a distinct and separate action be
maintained. So, while the promises of the bond and of the
coupons in the first instance are upon the same paper, and
the coupons are for interest due upon the bond, yet the promise to pay the coupon is as distinct from that to pay the bond,
as though the two promises were placed in different instruments upon different paper."
Not only may a suit be maintained upon an unpaid coupon,
in advance of the maturity of the principal debt, but the
holder of a coupon is entitled to recover interest thereon from
its maturity. Amy v. DJiPbuyu, 98 U. S. 470, 473. The logical effect of these rulings is that when the interest evidenced
by a coupon has become due and payable the demand based
upon the promise contained in such coupon is no longer a
mere incident of the principal indebtedness represented by
the bond, but becomes really a principal obligation. Clearly,
such would be the nature of the claim of one who as owner
of the coupons and not of the bonds, brought his action to
enforce payment of the indebtedness evidenced by the
coupons. So, also, before maturity of the bonds, their holder
could still have sued upon the matured coupons as an independent indebtedness, and not as a mere accessory to a
demand for a recovery of the face of the bonds. No good
reason, therefore, exists for creating a distinction between
such cases and the case at bar in which there is coupled with
the demand to recover upon the coupons a demand for judgment upon the bonds. The confusion of thought to which
we alluded in the case of Brown v. TWebster, 156 U. S. 328,
is also involved in the decision below, that is, the failure to

HANFORD v. DAVIES.
Syllabus.

distinguish between a principal and accessory demand. The
claim made by the plaintiff on the coupons was in no just
sense accessory to any other demand, but was in itself principal and primary. In ascertaining, therefore, the jurisdictional
sum in dispute, the sum of the coupons should have been
treated as an independent, principal demand and not as interest; and in holding otherwise the lower court erred to the
prejudice of the plaintiff in error.
As the face of the bonds amounted- to the sum of two
thousand dollars, the addition of the demand based upon the
coupons brought the sum in dispute within the jurisdiction
of the Circuit Court. It is, therefore, unnecessary to consider
whether the controversy as to the funding bonds did not involve a real matter "in dispute" between the parties.
The judgment is reversed and the cause is remanded with
directions to set aside the order dismissing the actionfor
want of jurisdiction, andfor furtherproceedings inconformity to law.

HANFORD v. DAVIES.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF WASHINGTON.
No.260. Argued and submitted April 29, 80,1896. -Decided May 18,1896.
The constitutional prohibition upon the passage of state laws impairing the
obligation of contracts has reference only to the laws, that Is, to the
constitutional provisions or to the legislative enactments, of a State, and
not to judicial decisions or the acts of state tribunals or officers under
statutes in force at the time of the making of the contract, the obligation of which is alleged to have been Impaired.
When it is the purpose to present a case under the clause of the Constitution relating to due process of law, and both parties are citizens of the
same State, the grounds upon which a Federal court can take cognizance
of a suit of that character and between such parties must be clearly and
distinctly stated In the bill.
Jurisdiction In such case cannot be Inferred argumentatively from averments in the pleadings, but the averments must be positive.
vo.. CLxm-18

