OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Statement of the Case.

PEREGO v. DODGE.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF UTAH.
No. 273.Argued May 1, 1896.-Decided

May 18, 1896.

This complaint being, in effect, a bill to quiet title as against an adverse
claim, and the plaintiff having thus voluntarily invoked the equity jurisdiction of the court, he is in no position to urge, on appeal, that his
complaint should have been dismissed because of adequacy of remedy
at law, and such an objection comes too late in the appellate tribunal.
Where a case is one of equitable jurisdiction only, the trial court is not
bound to submit issues of fact to a jury; and, if it does so, is at liberty
to disregard the verdict and findings of the jury.
By reason of his selection of this form of action, and his proceeding to a
hearing and decree without objection, the contention of the appellant in
respect of his deprivation of trial by jury comes too late.
The act of March 3, 1881, c. 140, 21 Stat. 505, was not intended to require
and does not require all suits under Rev. Stat. ยง 2326, to be actions at
law and to be tried by a jury.

THIS was a suit brought by William Perego against W. H.
Dodge and others in the District Court for the Third Judicial
District of the Territory of Utah in pursuance of the provisions of section 2326 of the Revised Statutes. The complaint
alleged the title of plaintiff to a mining claim, called the
Perego, of which he averred he was in possession ; described
it; and stated the date of location, existence of the vein and
the other facts entitling him to a decree founded upon such
title. It was then alleged that defendants had made application for a patent to certain mining claims known as the Mayflower Nos. 4 and 5, and that they had wrongfully surveyed
said claims so as to conflict with plaintiff's claim; and, after
describing the area in conflict, averred that notice of the application for patent by defendants was published ; that within
the sixty day period of publication plaintiff filed in the land
office his adverse claim, and brought this suit within thirty
days thereafter. Plaintiff prayed judgment and relief against
defendants, " that the plaintiff is the owner and lawfully in
and entitled to the possession of the last above described
premises, the area in conflict between the said Perego mining

PEREGO v. DODGE.
Statement of the Case.

claim and the alleged consolidated claim of Win. H. Dodge el
al. upon alleged Mayflower No. 4 and Mayflower No. 5 lode
locations and the lodes therein, and quieting and confirming
plaintiff's title thereto and possession thereof; that the defendants have no title to or right of possession of said conflict
area or the lodes therein or any part thereof ; that the defendants be restrained pending the action and upon trial perpetually from entering in or upon said conflict area or the lodes
thereon or any part thereof or mining in or extracting any
ores or mineral therefrom, and from in any way interfering
with the possession thereof; also that the plaintiff have all
other and further proper relief, with costs of suit."
Defendants answered denying the material allegations of
the complaint, and further affirmatively set up the necessary
jurisdictional facts of their location, averred that the required
assessment work had been fully performed, claimed a valid
location of the Mayflower, Nos. 4 and 5, and prayed that defendants be adjudged to be the owners and entitled to the
possession of the said Mayflower Nos. 4 and 5 lodes and mining
claims, including the area in conflict, and for all other proper
relief, and for costs of suit.
The case came on for trial and the parties appeared by their
attorneys, as the record states, "present and ready for trial and
the case is tried before the court." The trial occupied three
days, May 6, 7 and 9, 1891, and on May 11 the following entry
was made: "This case having been heretofore tried and submitted to the court, and the court being now fully advised, finds
the issues for the defendants, and it is ordered that decree be
entered herein in favor of the defendants and against the plaintiff and quieting and confirming the title of the defendants to
the area in conflict herein, and plaintiff is allowed thirty days'
stay and the same time to file notice of motion and statement
on motion for new trial." The District Court made findings
of fact and conclusions of law, which commenced as follows:
"This cauge duly coming on for trial on the merits before the
court without a jury, and the court having heard the pleadings, evidence and arguments of the respective counsel, the
court now makes and files the following findings of fact and
VOL. CLXIII-11

OCTOBER TERMA, 1895.
Statement of the Case.

conclusions of law." The court found the claims of defendants valid and that of plaintiff invalid as against defendants,
and that defendants were entitled to a decree "adjudging
them to be the owners (subject only to a paramount title of
the United States) and in and entitled to the possession of the
whole and every part of the said Mayflower No. 4 and Mayflower No. 5 lode mining claims, and as part thereof and belonging thereto the conflict areas described in the complaint
and the whole thereof, and adjudging that the plaintiff had
not at the time he filed his protest and adverse claim or at
any time since, and has not now any right, title or interest in
or to said or any part of said conflict areas described in the
complaint, and forever enjoining, estopping and debarring the
plaintiff and any and all persons claiming by, through or under
him from at any time setting up any claim of right or title to
said or any part of said mining claim or conflict area, and forever confirming and quieting the defendants' right and title
thereto, and awarding the defendants their costs herein as
against the plaintiff."
These findings and the decree in accordance therewith were
filed and entered on August 18, 1891. On August 5, 1892,
plaintiff, acting through other counsel than appeared at the
trial, filed a notice of intention to move the court to set aside
and vacate the findings and decision and decree, and for a
new trial, on the ground: "1st. Irregularity in the proceedings of the court by which the plaintiff was prevented from
having a fair trial. 2d. Errors of law occurring at the trial,
to wit, the trial of said cause by the court without a waiver
of jury by the plaintiff. 3d. Because the findings and decree
are irregular and void as appears by the record." This notice
was accompanied by an affidavit that the value of the property exceeded one thousand dollars; that plaintiff had not by
himself in person or by attorney, at any time; orally, or in
writing, waived his right of trial by jury in said suit, and that
he had at all times desired to have the same tried by a jury;
that no notice of the decision of the court in the cause had
been served upon him or his attorney.
Notice of appeal to the Supreme Court of the Territory of

PEREGO v. DODGE.
Opinion of the Court.

Utah was filed August 15, 1891, and on August 16, plaintiff
was allowed thirty days' time to file an undertaking on appeal.
On September 3, a new notice was served of the motion to
vacate and set aside the findings and decree and for new trial.
On September 10, thirty days was allowed plaintiff for an undertaking on appeal. On September 19, the motion to vacate
and set aside the decree and grant a new trial was submitted
and overruled, and on October 4, 1892, notice of appeal from
that order was given, and an undertaking on appeal was subsequently filed. No statement or bill of exceptions appears
in the record. The case was brought to a hearing in the Supreme Court of the Territory of Utah, and the judgment of
the District Court was affirmed with costs. 9 Utah, 3. Affidavits of the value of the matter in dispute were submitted
and an appeal allowed to this court.
Errors were assigned to the effect that the Supreme Court
of Utah erred in affirming the decree of the District Court in
that the District Court should have dismissed the complaint
because in equity when the remedy was at law; should not
have awarded defendants affirmative relief in the absence of a
cross complaint; and should not have tried the case without
a jury.
r. B. F. Lee, (with whom was fr.. Gerald G. P. Jackso
on the brief,) for appellant.
.Mr. Arthur Brown, (with whom was Mr. William H.
JDickgon on the brief,) for appellees.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE FuLLu

delivered the opinion of the

court.
In the Territory of Utah there was but one form of action,
legal or equitable, through the intervention of a jury or by
the court itself, according to the nature of the relief sought,
provided, however, that no party could be "deprived of the
right of trial by jury in cases cognizable at common law."
Rev. Stat. ยง 1868; act of April 7,1874, c. 80, ยง 1, 18 Stat.

OCTOBER TER-1',

1895.

Opinion of the Court.

27; Comp. Laws of Utah, ยง 3126; Idaho & Oregon Land
Improvement Co. v. Bradbury, 132 U. S. 509, 513.
By section 3468 of the Code of Civil Procedure of Utah, an
action might be brought by any person against another who
claimed an estate or interest in real property adverse to him,
for the purpose of determining such adverse claim; and this
complaint was, in effect, a bill to quiet title, as against an
adverse claim, and prayed, accordingly, for a decree quieting
plaintiff's title, and adjudicating that defendants had no title
or right of possession; for injunction; and for general relief.
We are of opinion that it was competent for the District
Court to grant the relief sought, and that it had jurisdiction
of the subject-matter. Plaintiff, having voluntarily invoked
the equity jurisdiction of the court, was not in a position to
urge, on appeal, that his complaint should have been dismissed
because of adequacy of remedy at law. Even a defendant,
who answers and submits to the jurisdiction of the court, and
enters into his defence at large, is precluded from raising such
an objection on appeal for the first time. 1?eyne8 v. Dumont,
130 U. S. 354, 395; .Kilbourn v. Sunderland, 130 U. S. 505;
Brown v. Lake Superior Iron Co., 134 U. S. 530, 536. Nor
did the Supreme Court of Utah err in overruling the contention that affirmative relief was improperly awarded defendants
because they had filed no cross complaint. Such relief was
sought by the answer, which was treated by the parties and
proceeded on by the court as equivalent to a cross pleading.
The objection came too late in the appellate tribunal. Coburn
v. CedarValley Land Co., 138 U. S. 196, 221.
Section 2325 of the Revised Statutes points out how patents
for mineral lands may be obtained. Application is filed in
the proper land office as therein prescribed and notice of such
application published, and if no adverse claim is filed at the
expiration of sixty days of publication, it is assumed that the
applicant is entitled to a patent, and that no adverse claim
exists.
Section 2326 provides as follows:
"Where an adverse claim is filed during the period of pub-lication, it shall be upon oath of the person or persons making

PEREGO v. DODGE.
Opinion of the Court.

the same, and shall show the nature, boundaries, and extent
of such adverse claim, and all proceedings, except the publication of notice and making and filing of the affidavit thereof,
shall be stayed until the controversy shall have been settled
or decided by a court of competent jurisdiction, or the adverse
claim waived. It shall be the duty of the adverse claimant,
within thirty days after filing his claim, to commence proceedings in a court of competent jurisdiction, to determine the
question of the right of possession, and prosecute the same
with reasonable diligence to final judgment; and a failure
so to do shall be a waiver of his adverse claim."
It is then provided that after judgment the party shall ile
a certified copy of the judgment roll with the register of the
land office, together with the certificate of the surveyor general as to the requisite amount of labor or improvements, and
that the whole proceedings and the judgment roll shall be
certified by the register to the Commissioner of the General
Land Office, whereupon a patent shall issue for the claim.
Thus the determination of the right of possession as between
the parties is referred to a court of competent jurisdiction, in
aid of the land office, but the form of action is not provided
for by the statute; and, apparently, an action at law or a suit
in equity would lie, as either might be appropriate under the
particular circumstances, an action to recover possession when
plaintiff is out of possession, and a suit to quiet title when he
is in possession.
In the case before us plaintiff averred that he was in possession, and framed his complaint in that aspect. Having instituted his suit as an equity cause, issues were made up and the
case heard and disposed of and went to decree as in equity,
and nearly a year afterwards he carried the case to the
Supreme Court of the Territory and complained that the
decree was fatally erroneous in that a jury trial was not had.
But where a case is one of equitable jurisdiction only, the
trial court is not bound to submit any issues of fact to a jury,
and, if it does so, is at liberty to disregard the verdict and
findings of the jury, "either by setting them or any of them
aside, or by letting themn stand, and allowing them more or less

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

weight in its final hearing and decree, according to its own
view of the evidence in the cause." Idaho & Oregon Land
Improvement Co. v. Bradbury, 132 U. S. 509, 515.
By his selection of this form of action, and his proceeding
to a hearing and decree without objection, his present contention in respect of deprivation of trial by jury came too late.
Even if the action should have been an action at law, still the
court had jurisdiction, and a defective exercise of its power
would only amount to an irregularity capable of being waived
by the parties and susceptible of correction as any other mere
errors are corrected. Indeed, if the case were treated as an
action at law, the trial by jury might have been waived, and
we think was waived in this instance.
By the fourth section of the act of Congress of iMarch 3,
1865, (13 Stat. 500, c. 86,) carried forward into sections 649
and 700 of the Revised Statutes, it was enacted that "issues
of fact in civil cases in any Circuit Court of the United States
may be tried and determined by the court without the intervention of a jury, whenever the parties, or their attorneys
of record, file a stipulation in writing with the clerk of the
court waiving a jury."
In 1earney v. Case, 12 Wall. 275, this statute was considered,
and it was held that parties might waive a jury, as they
could before the act was passed, without filing a written
stipulation, but that in such case no error could be considered
in the action of the court on such trial, and that parties would
be presumed in this court to have waived their right to trial
by jury of issues of fact whenever it appeared that they were
present at the trial in person or by counsel and made no
demand for a jury. See also Bond v. Du8tin, 112 U. S. 604.
By section 3340 of the Code of Utah, issues of fact in actions at law are required to be tried by a jury, and by section
3378 provision is made for the waiver of a jury as therein prescribed. But, as ruled in ifearney v. Case, the right may be
otherwise waived, and such waiver be sufficient to support the
judgment, though not sufficient to authorize the review of the
rulings of the court at the trial. Tested by any rule, there
can be no question that this record shows such waiver here.

PEREGO v. DODGE.
Opinion of the Court.

It is true that on the motion to vacate the decree and for a
new trial an affidavit was flied that there was no waiver
orally or in writing, in person or by attorney, but we suppose
that to mean a waiver according to section 3378, and that
was not material. Moreover, the Supreme Court held that
the notice of intention to move for a new trial, the affidavit
and the minutes of the trial court were no part of the record,
because not embodied in any statement of case or bill of exceptions, and that appears to be the settled rule in that jurisdiction.
But it is insisted that by force of the act of Congress of
March 3, 1881, c. 140, 21 Stat. 505, this class of cases must be
disposed of on trial by jury according to the course of the
common law, and that either these entire proceedings were
absolutely void, not for want of equity but for want of power;
or that, at all events, the requirement of trial by jury is imperative and cannot be waived, and that the seventh article of
Amendment and the law were violated by proceeding to judgment without it.
The amendatory act provides: "That if, in any action
brought pursuant to section 2326 of the Revised Statutes,
title to the ground in controversy shall not be established by
either party, the jury shall so find, and judgment shall be
entered according to the verdict. In such case costs shall
not be allowed to either party, and the claimant shall not
proceed in the land office or be entitled to a patent to the
land in controversy until he shall have perfected his title."
We do not think the intention of this act was to change the
methods of trial. Its manifest object was to provide for an
adjudication, in the case supposed, that neither party was
entitled to the property, so that the applicant could not go
forward with his proceedings in the land office simply because
the adverse claimant had failed to make out his case, if he
had also failed. In other words, the duty was imposed on
the court to enter such judgment or decree as would evidence
that the applicant had not established the right of possession,
and was for that reason not entitled to a patent. The whole
proceeding is merely in aid of the land department, and the

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

object of the amendment was to secure that aid as much in
cases where both parties failed to establish title as where
judgment was rendered in favor of either, and while the finding by a jury is referred to, we think that, where the adverse
claimant chooses to proceed by bill to quiet title, and as
between him and the applicant for the patent neither is found
entitled to relief, the court can render a decree to that effect,
just as it would render judgment on a verdict if the action
were at law. If Congress had intended to provide that litigation of this sort must be at law, or must invariably be tried by
a jury, it would have said so. There is nothing to indicate
the intention thus to circumscribe resort to the accustomed
modes of procedure or to prevent the parties from submitting
the determination of their controversies to the court.
It must be remembered that it is "the question of the right
of possession" which is to be determined by the courts, and
that the United States is not a party to the proceedings. The
only jurisdiction which the courts have is of a controversy
between individual claimants, and it has not been provided
that the rights of an applicant for public lands as against the
government may be determined by the courts in a suit against
the latter. United States v. Jones, 131 U. S. 1; Last Chance
.Mining Co. v. Tyler .Mining Co., 157 U. S. 683, 694.
It was held by Mr. Justice Lamar, when Secretary of the
Interior, that, notwithstanding the judgment of a court" on
the question as to the right of possession between two litigants, it still remained for the land department to pass on the
sufficiency of the proofs, and to ascertain the character of the
land and whether the conditions of the law had been complied
with in good faith before the government parted with the
title. 4 Land Dec. 314, 316. But whatever the extent of the
conclusiveness of a judgment under the statute, and granting
that the government may be said to be interested in respect
to the possessory title, we do not regard the act of March 3,
1881, as intended to require or requiring all suits under section
2326 to be actions at law and to be tried by a jury.
Judgment affirmed.

