Oct. 1873.]

MITCHELL

v.

TILGHMAN.

Statement of the case.-Preliminary remarks.

MITCHELL V. TILGHMAN.
What R. A. Tilghman, of Philadelphia, claimed as his invention under the
letters-patent granted to him of January 9th, 1854, was the process of
manufacturing fat-acids and glycerin from fatty or oily substances by
the action of water at a high temperature and pressure.
Two conditions, viz., that the heating vessel must be kept entirely fall of
the mixture of fat and water, and that no steam or air must be allowed
to accumulate in the vessel employed to impart the heat, were material
and indispensable conditions of Tilghman's patented method.
The claim of the patentee must be limited to the specific method or means
of applying highly heated water under pressure pointed out in the specification ; and although the claim is on its face broader than this, yet it
is to be construed by reference to the specification.
In this point of view it is unimportant whether the claim contained any
direct reference to the specification or not. Such reference, where not
expressed, will be implied.
The precise apparatus described in Tilghman's specification does not appear to have gone into practical use in this country or in Europe, and
the apparatus worked by Tilghman's licensees differs in many material
respects from the apparatus described in his patent, and taken as a whole,
therefore, it was considered by this court that Tilghman did not succeed
in introducing his invention into practical use by the means and mode
of operation described in his specification.
Accordingly, where a defendant had used highly heated water in a close
vessel, but used a much more moderate degree of heat than specified by
Tilghman, and used an entirely different apparatus from Tilghman's,
and one which permitted the existence of steam as well as water-construing Tilghman's claim of invention as limited by the specific means
and mode of operation described in his specification-such defendant
was held not to have infringed.

from the Circuit Court for the Southern District
of New York, in which court R. A. Tilghman filed two bills
in equity against R. G. Mitchell, under a patent granted to
him the said Tilghman, for a process for making fat-acid
and glycerin from natural fat; one bill having been filed
duriiag the first term of the patent, and the other under the
extended term of the same patent.
In both cases final decrees were given in favor of Tilghman; and the defendant, Mitchell, took these appeals.
APPEALS

The bill set forth the grant of letters-patent to Tilghman,

MITCHELL V.

TILGHMAN.

[Sup. or.

Statement of the case.-1Preliminary remarks.

October 3d, 1854, for fourteen years from January 9th, 1854,
the reduction of the patented improvement to use, and the
infringement by Mitchell.
The invention claimed by Tilghman may be stated, in
general terms, to be based upon the discovery that if water
be heated to a high degree, and at the same time retained
in a close vessel so that it cannot pass into the state of steam,
but must remain in the liquid state, it will, while in such
highly heated liquid state, possess a peculiar property of
separating natural fat into its chemical constituents, glycerin and fat-acids. He undertook to claim the employment
of water in the liquid slate, heated and under the pressure necessary to retain it in the liquid state as the decomposing agent.
He asserted that prior to his discovery and invention, no
one had ever known, used, or described the employment of
highly heated water retainedin the liquidstate by pressure as such
decomposing agent, and that under the law if he set forth
this newly discovered decomposing power of liquid water
heated and under pressure, and exhibited in his specification
one mode of practically applying it, he was entitled to the
exclusive use of this decomposing agent in treating fats for
the purpose of separating them into liLt-acids and glycerin.
To understand the questions at issue in this case, and
passed upon by the court, there is first to be considered the
phenomenon of heating water, &c., its behavior and properties when heated.
Water when heated in an open vessel at the surface of the
earth passes into a state of vapor, at a temperature of 2120
of Fahrenheit's thermometer; the waters expanding over
eighteen hundred times in passing into steam. It is impossible to retain water in a liquid state, in an open vessel,
after it has reached that temperature. If the vessel in which
the water is heated, however, be covered, and the cover be
fastened down, the water can be heated to any temperature
whatever, and will still remain in the liquid state. The tendency of the water to pass into vapor increases with the

Oct. 1873.]

MITCHELL V.

TILGHMAN.

Statement of the case.-Preliminary Temarks.

degree of heat applied to it, and there must, therefore, be a
proportionate pressure or restraint by the inclosing vessel
on the heated water to overcome this expansive tendency, or
tendency to pass into a state of a vapor.
Vessels in which water could be heated to any desired
temperature, and the water still retained-in the liquid state,
were known in the arts, and called "digesters."
To understand matters further a brief statement of the
art of treating fat is necessary.
Fats obtained from various sources difflred much in hardness and fusibility, and each variety was formerly supposed
to be an entirely different article. About 1816, Braconnot,
a French chemist, discovered that all natural fats were
merely mechanical mixtures, in various proportions of fats
entirely solid and hard, now called stearin, with a more
fluid fat or oil, called olein. He found that simple pressure
very slowly applied, squeezed out the more fluid part, and
tLat the remainder made harder candles. But the process
of separation by pressure was difficult and imperfect.
Ohevreul, in 1825, discovered that all fats were chemical
compounds of a substance called glycerin, with fatty bodies
having slight acid characters called fatty acids; that fatty
acids were of different degrees of fusibility, and that when
the glycerin was separated from fats, the fatty acids could
be more rapidly and perfectly pressed so as to get out the
hardest fatty acids for candles; and he patented a chemical
process of separating these fatty acids from glycerin.
His process consisted of two distinct stages:
1. The manufacture of natural fat into soap, by boiling
lime or other alkali with the fat, in which case fourteen
pounds of lime were used to one hundred pounds of fat.
2. The decomposition of the soap so produced into fat.
acid by the use of two pounds of sulphuric acid to each
pound of lime.
Soap had always previously been made by boiling the fat
and solution of alkali together, and Ohevreul suggested that
this production of soap could be expedited by boiling the
VOL. XII.

19

MITCHELL

v.

TILGHMAN.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.-Preliminary remarks.

fat and the solution of alkali together under pressure. He
did not, however, suggest that water alone, heated and under
pressure, would of itself decompose neutral fat into fat-acid
and glycerin, but expressly mentioned alkali and sulphuric
acid as the decomposing agents.
Another mode of separating free fat-acids was devised,
which was called decomposition by sulphuric acid distillation.
This process was invented and used for producing fat-acid
only, and not glycerin; the glycerin being destroyed by the
process. It was asserted by Tilghman that this process differed from his:
1. In that the result produced was different, viz., fat-acid
only, while his, Tilghman's, produced simultaneously both
fat-acid and glycerin;
2. In that it required sulphuric acid to decompose the fat
into fat-acid;
3. In that it did not depend for its efficiency on the use of
highly heated water in the liquid state, retained in such state
by pressure;
4. In that it was a process of distillation.
We must view here also the attempted decomposition by steam.
It was from time to time attemptedi prior to Tilghman's
alleged invention, to decompose neutral fat into fat-acid by
distillationin a current of steam, but it was asserted by Tilghman that it was an unsuccessful and abandoned experiment,
and had never come into use; and that even if it had been
successful it differed in every way from his process. Among
other ways,
In not producing glycerin as a result;
In not depending upon, or even allowing of, the presence
of highly heated water under pressure;
In that it was a process depending on vaporization and
subsequent condensation of the fat-acids;
In that the apparatus absolutely necessary for the distillation
process was such as to render the execution of the hot-water
process of him, Tilghman, in the same fitterly impossible.
Tilghman asserted that he had made the discovery--not

Oct. 1873.]

MITCHELL V. TILGHMAN.

291

Statement of the case.-Tilghman's patent.

that heat alone would decompose fats into fat-acid and glycerin, nor that the presence of water was necessary when
chemicals are used to decompose fats into fat-acid and glycerin-but merely that water in a liquid state, heated to a
high degree of temperature while inclosed in a strong vessel, so as to prevent its passing into steam, would of itself
and without the aid of chemicals separate natural fat into
its constituent elements, fat-acids and glycerin. Having
made, as he alleged, this discovery of a new chemical decomposing property of water highly heated and retained in the
liquid state by pressure, Tilghman, in his patent, announced
it, and, as will be seen directly, also described two modes of
carrying out his process based thereon.
In the alkaline saponification processes, which were in
use prior to Tilghman's invention, various forms of closed
boilers, provided with safety valves, were known. It was
also known that fat and water would tend to remain unmixed in a boiler, and therefore agitators or circulators, for
preserving a mixture or intimate contact between the fat
and lime and water during the process of alkaline saponification, under pressure, were also in use.*
The specification, in the patent, ran thus:
"Be it known that I, Richard Albert Tilghman, of Philadelphia, have invented a new and improved mode of treating fatty
and oily bodies, and I hereby declare that the following is a full
and exact description thereof.
"My invention consists of a process for producing free fatacids and solution of glycerin from those fatty and oily bodies
of animal and vegetable origin which contain glycerin as their
base. For this purpose, I subject these fatty or oily bodies to the
* Testimony in the case showed a great variety of these things, the common barrel churn being one of the simplest and best known. De Millcy's
vertical boiler, with an agitator going up and down, used A. D. 1834, was
another form. Alliott's vertical boiler, with centrifugal pump to draw
water from bottom and to spread it on the top, used A. D. 1851, was another.
Radley & Meyers's revolving mechanical agitator, used A. D. 1851, in a
closed boiler having a safety-valve, was yet another. The automatic circulation by the ascending power of a column of heated water, it was testified,
was used in an apparatus of Floyd, A. D. 1795.

MITCHELL V. TILGIMAN.

[Sup. Ct

Statement of the case.-Tilghtman's patent.

action of water at a high temperature and pressure, so as to cause
the elements of those bodies to combine with water, and
thereby obtain at the same time free fat-acids .and solution of
glycerin. I mix the fatty body to be operated upon with from
a third to a half of its bulk of water.
"And the mixture may be placed in any convenient vessel in which
it can be heated to the melting-point of lead, until the operation is
complete. The vessel must be closed and of great strength, so
that the requisite amount of pressure may be applied to prevent
the conversion of the water into steam.
" The process may be performed more rapidly and also continuously by causing the mixture of fatty matter and water to pass
through a tube or continuous channel, heated to the temperature
already mentioned; the requisite pressure for preventing the conversion of water into steam being applied daring the process,
and this, I believe, is the best mode of carrying my invention into
effect.
"In the drawing hereunto annexed are shown figures of AN
apparatus for performing this process speedily and continuously,
but which apparatus I do not intend to claim as any part of my
invention.
" Figure 1 of the said drawing is a vertical section of this apparatus, and Figure 2 shows the various parts of the apparatus
in horizontal section: similar parts in these figures being marked
with similar letters of reference.
"I place the fat or oil in a fluid state in the vessel, A, with
from one-third to one-half its bulk of warm water; the disk or
piston, B, perforated with numerous small holes, being kept in
rapid motion, up and down, in the vessel, A, causes the fat, or
oil and water, to form an emulsion, or intimate mechanical mixture. A force-pump, C, like those in common use for hydraulic
presses, then drives the mixture through a long coil of very
strong iron tube, D, D, D, D, which, being placed in the furnace,
E, E, E, E, is heated by a fire, F, to about the temperature of
melting lead. From the exit end, G, of the heating tubes, D, D,
D, D, the mixture, which has then become converted into free
fat-acids and solution of glycerin, passes on through another
coiled iron tube, H, H, H, immersed in water, by which it is
cooled down from its high temperature to below 2120 Fahrenheit, after which it makes its escape through the exit-valve, I,
into the receiving vessel.

Oct. 1873.]

MITCHELL v. TILGHMAN.

Statement of the case.-Tilgbman's patent.

"The iron tubes I have employed and found to be convenient
for this purpose, are about one inch external diameter, and about
half an inch internal diameter, being such as are in common
use for Perkins's hot-water apparatus. The ends of the tubes
are joined together by welding to make the requisite length,
but where welding is not practicable, I employ the kind of
joints used for Perkins's hot-water apparatus, which are now
FIG. 1.

well known. The heating-tube, D,D, D, D, is coiled several times
backwards and forwards, so as to arrange a considerable length
of tube in a moderate space. The different coils of the tube are
kept about a quarter of an inch apart from each other, and the
intefval between them is 'filled up solid with cast iron, which

294

MITOELL v. TILGnMAN.

[Sup.

at.

Statement of the case.-Tilghman's patent.

also covers the outer coils or rows of tubes to the thickness of
half or three-quarters of an inch, as shown in Figure 2. This
casing of metal insures a considerable uniformity of temperature
in the different parts of the coil, adding also to its strength, and
protecting it from injury by the fire.
"The exit-valve, I, is so loaded that when the heating tubes,
D, D, D, D, are at the desired working temperature, and the
pump, C, is not in action, it will not be opened by the internal
pressure produced by the application of heat to the mixture;
and, therefore, when the pump, C, is not in action, nothing
escapes from the valve, I, if the temperature be not too high. But
when the pump forces fresh mixture into one end, J, of the heating tubes, D, D, D, D, the exit-valve, I, is thereby forced open to
allow an equal amount of the mixture, which has been operated
upon, to escape out of the cooling tubes, H, H, at the other end
of the apparatus. No steam or air should be allowed to accumulate in the tubes, which should be kept entirely full of the
mixture. For this purpose, whenever it may be required, the
speed of the pump should be increased, so that the current
through the tubes may be made sufficiently rapid to. carry out
with it any air remaining in them.
"Although the decomposition of the neutral fats by water
takes place with great quickness at the proper heat, yet I prefer
that the pump, C, should be worked at such a rate in proportion
to the length or capacity of the heating tubes, D, D, D, D, that
the mixture, while flowing through them, should be maintained
at the desired temperature for ten minutes before it passes into
the refrigerator or cooling parts, H, H, of the apparatus.
"The melting-point of lead has been mentioned as the proper
heat to be used in this operation, because it has been found to
give good results. But the change of fatty matters into fatacid and glycerin takes place with some materials (such as
palm oil) at, or below, the melting-point of bismuth, yet the
heat has been carried considerably above the melting-point of
lead without any apparent injury, and the decomposing action
of the water becomes more powerful as the heat is increased.
By starting the apparatusat a low heat, and gradually increasing
it, the temperaturegiving products most suitable to the intended application of the fatty body employed, can easily be determined.
"To indicate the temperature of the tubes D, D, D, D, I have
found the successive melting of metals and other substances of

Oct. 1873.]

MITCHELL V. TILGHMAN.

Statement of the case.-Tilghman's patent.
different and known degrees of fusibility to be convenient in
practice; several holes, half an inch in diameter, and two or
three inches deep, are bored into the solid parts of the castings
surrounding the tubes, each hole being charged with a different
substance. The series I have used consist of tin, melting about
4400 F.; bismuth at about 5100 F.; lead at about 6120 F., and
nitrate of potash at about 6600 F. A straight piece of iron
wire, passing through the side of the furnace to the bottom of
each of the holes, enables the workmen to feel which of the substances are melted, and to regulate the fire accordingly. It is
important, for the quickness and perfection of the decomposition, that the oil and water, during their entire passage through
the heating tubes, should remain in the same state of intimate
mixture in which they enter them. I therefore prefer to place
the series of heating tubes in a vertical position, so that any
partial separation which may take place, while the liquids pass
up one tube, may be counteracted as they pass down the next.
I believe that it will be found useful to fix at intervals, in the
heating tubes, diaphragms pierced with numerous small holes,
so that liquids, being forced through these obstructions with
great velocity, may be thoroughly mixed together.
"I deem it prudent to test the strength of the apparatus by a
pressure of ten thousand pounds to the square inch, before taking it into use; but I believe that the working pressure necessary
in using the heat I have mentioned will not be found to exceed
two thousand pounds to the square inch.
"When it is desired to diminish the contact of the liquids with
iron, the tubes or channels of the apparatus may be lined with
copper. The hot mixture of fat-acids and solution of glycerin
which escapes from the exit-valve of the apparatus separates by
subsidence. The fit-acids may then be washed with water, and
the solution of glycerin concentrated and purified by the usual
means.
"The fat-acids thus produced may, like those obtained by
other methods, be used in the manufacture of candles and soaps,
and applied to various purposes, according to their quality;
and, when desired, they may also be first bleached by chemical
agents, or purified by distillation, in a current of steam or in a
vacuum, as is now well understood. I prefer that the fatty
bodies should be previously deprived, as far as practicable, of
euch impurities as would cause the discoloration of the fat-acids

[Sup. Mt

MITCHELL V. TILGHMAN.

Statement of the case.-Substance of the answer.

produced; but when the fat-acids are to be finally purified by
distillation this preliminary purification is of less importance.
I*When the sulphuric acid, nitrous fumes, or other corrosive
agent shall have been used for purifying, hardening, or otherwise preparing the fatty body to be operated upon, I take care
that all traces of it shall be washed out, or neutralized, before
passing it through the apparatus.
"Some fatty bodies (particularly when impure) generate,
during the process, a portion of acetic or other soluble acid,
which might tend to injure the iron tubes; in such cases, I add
a corresponding quantity of alkaline or basic matter to the
water and oil before they are pumped intp the tubes.
"Having now described the nature of my said invention, and
the manner of performing the same, I hereby declare that
"I claim as of my invention, the manufacturing of fat-acids and
glycerin from fatty bodies by the action of water at a high temperature and pressure.
'
"R:.

A.

TILGHMAN. "

The answers to the bill of Tilghman, which set forth his
patent, denied that Tilghman had applied his improvement
to practical use;
Alleged that the manufacturing of fat-acids and glycerin
from fatty bodies by the action of water at a high temperature and pressure, cannot be accomplished so as to be practically useful, if it can at all, by the method and apparatus
described in said letters-patent;
Alleged that all attempts to carry on the manufacture of
fatty acids by means of the apparatus and method described
in said letters-patent had failed;
Denied that the defendant had been using the improvement of Tilghman, or "any method in construction or operation substantially the same, otherwise than was thereinafter
alleged," but admitted that he "used water atahigh temperature,
and steam, and such pressure as arises from the expansive
force of hot water or steam in a close vessel, under and in
pursuance of a patent of Wright & Fouch4, January 25th,
1859 ;"

.leged that "the action of water highly heated in a close

Oct. 1873.]

MITCHELL V. TILGHMAN.

Statement of the case.-Wright & Fouch6's patent.

vessel upon very many substances to decompose them, and upon
fats and oils," was, prior to Tilghman's invention, well known
to chemists, &c., and was described in printed publicationsAlleged that befbre the invention of Tilghman "the use
of a close vessel of such strength as to resist the pressure
of the water when heated, or any needed pressurewhen using
water to decompose other substances, was known to and
practiced by men of science and manufacturers in the United
States and elsewhere ;"
Alleged that the said quality of highly heated water thus
used is an elementary principle, and not patentable;
Alleged that the mode and means described in the specification as the best means of carrying'the invention into
effect was dangerous, owing to the degree of heat required.
It also referred to numerous prior patents, and contained
extracts from publications to show that Tilghman's invention had been anticipated. Among the extracts were:
1st. Extracts showing use of digesters, for heating water
to high temperature and still retaining it in a liquid state;
2d. Extracts showing use of digesters for rendering raw
fat or removing the membranous and cellular matter, and
thus purifying it;
3d. Extracts from text-books and writers, stating generally that neutral fats can be decomposed into fat-acids and
glycerin, and that in the act of decomposition the elements
of the water are taken up by the fat-acids and glycerin ;
4th. Extracts to show that alkaline saponification decomposes neutral fat into soap and glycerin, which soap can
afterwards be decomposed into fat-acid; and also to show
that the alkaline saponificationcan be better effected in a close
vessel under pressure;
5th. Extracts stating that fats can be distilled in the presence of steam into fat-acids, which are passed over as vapors
and condensed in the still.
The patent of Wight 4 Fouchg, dated January 25th, 1859,
under which the defendant, Mitchell, in his answer as above
condensed, asserted that he was working, was thus:

MITCHELL V. TILGHMAN.

[Sup.
Ct.
[

Statement of the case.-Wright & Foueh6l's patent.

"TO

ALL TO WHOM1 IT MAY CONCERN:

"Be it known that we, Robert Alfred Wright, civil engineer,
and Louis Jules Fouch6, steam-boiler maker, of Paris, in the empire of France, have invented ' a new apparatus, destined to pro.
duce chemical decompositions by means of superheated steam
and water;' and we do hereby declare that the following is a
full, clear, and exact description of the same, reference being
had to the annexed sheet of drawings, making a part of the
same.
"The apparatus, which is the object of the present patent to
secure, is susceptible of several industrial applications; but as it is
chiefly intended for the decomposition of fatty substances into fatty
acids and glycerin, we will describe it as applied to that purpose.
"This invention is represented in the annexed drawing, which
shows the elevation of the apparatus complete.*
"The dimensions of the apparatus may vary with the various
purposes to which it may be applied.
"a is a metal (iron or copper) boiler, of any form whatever,
placed in a furnace, in order to be heated by a naked fire; this
boiler has sides sufficiently strong to resist a pressure of from ten to
twenty atmospheres;t it is of a variable capacity, according to
the requirements, of the manufacture, and it may have its interior lined with lead, or by any other metal which will not be
attacked by the fatty bodies which are to be introduced and
produced therein; b, hearth; c, ashpit; d, dipping-pipe, furnished with a cock to empty the apparatus by pressure; e, e,
manhole, serving for cleaning the cylindrical vessel a, and for
the introduction of substances, if required; f, metal tube (of iron
or copper) connecting the bottom of the boiler a with the bottom of the cylinder h; g, metal tube of ascension, conducting
the superheated water from the boiler a to the upper part of
cylinder h. This tube is terminated in the interior of the cylin.
der h by a rose-jet, or, more simply, holes are made in the extremity, so as to distribute the water uniformly in the cylinder
h, and to insure a molecular or finely subdivided contacu between the superheated water and the substance submitted to
* In the patent itself, there were besides, some descriptions and drawings
of parts of the apparatus modified. With neither of these, however, is it
necessary to embarrass the reader.-REP.
t From 3400 to 4200 Fahr.

OClt. 1873.]

MITCHELL V. TILGHMAN.

Statement of the case.-Wright & Fouch6's patent.

the operation; h, iron or copper upper cylinder, which should,
like boiler a, be able to resist a pressure of from ten to twenty
atmospheres. The cylinder h receives the substances to be
treated; i, funnel, furnished with a tube and with a cock, serving for the introduction of the substances to be treated into the
cylinder h; that is, when this substance is of such a nature as
.

FIG. 8.

to be introduced through a small aperture; k, manhole, serving
for cleaning the cylinder h, and for the introduction of substances
to be treated which cannot pass through the funnel i; 1, safetyvalve; m, manometer or pressure-gauge, indicating the pressure

MITCHELL V.

TILGUMAN.

[[Sup.

Ct.

Statement of the case.-Wright & Fouch4's patent.

in the whole of the apparatus; n, n, cocks serving to indicate
the height and level of the substance and of the water in cylinder h; o, cock serving to empty the cylinder when the opera.
tion is completed.
"ACTION OF THE APPARATUS.

"Supposing everything arranged as shown in the drawing,
then, in order to decompose fatty substances into fatty acids
and into glycerin, the boiler a is completely filled with water.
The cylinder h is filled with water up to one-third of its height,
.and it is then filled up to the level of the upper cock with the
fatty bodies to be decomposed. The introduction of the fatty
bodies takes place, as we have said, either through the funnel z
or by the manhole k. The boiler a is then gradually heated till
the pressure-gauge indicates a pressure of from ten to twenty at.
mospheres, according to the nature of the substances submitted
to the operation, when the following takes place:
"The superheatedwater in the boiler a acquires an ascending
motion on account of the difference in the temperature of the
two capacities a and h; a current is thus created, whence it results that the heated water in boiler a ascends through the tube
g into the cylinder h, and being forcibly driven out through the
holes in the rose-jet, passes through the fatty bodies and descends again through the tube f to the bottom of the boiler a,
where it is again warmed, in order to recommence its ascending
motion, and so on.
"When this operation has been thus continued during a
length of time which may vary from five to eight hours, according to the nature of the fatty bodies operated on, and also according to the variation of pressure (varying from ten to twenty
atmospheres) the fatty bodies are decomposed into glycerin,
which remains dissolved in the water, and into fatty acids,
which float in the cylinder A. The contents are now emptied
out and separated from each other at the same time.
"In conclusion, we would remark that we are aware that:
Firstly, the decomposition of fatty bodies by water under the
influence of heat and of pressure is a well-known scientific fact.
Water is substituted for the organic basis. It forms a perfect
and fixed combination with the fatty acids, while the glycerin
is dissolved in the excess of water. Secondly, that as this
chemical action takes place under the influence of a weak

Oct. 1873.]

MITCHELL V. TILGHMAN.

Statement of the case.-Tilghman's positions.

affinity, it is necessary, in addition to the abovenamed physical
and chemical conditions, to insure a perfect molecular agitation
of the whole mass; and that we wish it to be understood that
what we wish to claim and establish as of our invention consists
of an apparatus wherein the water and the fatty matters are
heated separately in two different boilers. The first boiler is
heated by the source of heat, while the second boiler is heated
by the first boiler.
"In these boilers the agitation necessary for the chemical
action and combination is produced by the pressure of the heated
water in the first boiler. This water circulates continuously from
this first boiler to the second boiler, and from the second boiler
to the first, in a continuous and self-acting or automatic manner,
without interruption. The characteristics of our apparatus are,
that it produces agitation by circulationalone, a continuous and
automatic circulation, produced by the pressure of water.
"Lastly, our apparatus effects its chemical action in a continuous manner, without the aid of any manual or other assistance."

"CLAIMs. Having described the nature of our invention and
the manner in which the same is to be performed, we do not claim
the application of superheatedwater for decomposing fatty bodies,
nor the form of the apparatus above described, which may vary
somewhat according to conditions and circumstances; but what
we claim as our invention is, producing a continuous automatic
circulation of highly heated water, in a very finely divided state.
through the bodies under treatment, by means of an apparatus
constructed and employed substantially as herein shown and
described."
Tilghman insisted that the use of highly heated water
under pressure to decompose neutral fats into fat-acids and
glycerin was an infringement of his patent, no matter what
particular form of apparatus might be used, or what particular temperature adopted, aid no matter what particular device might be adopted to maintain the intimate mechanical
mixture of the fat and water during the decomposing operation; these last being obvious matters of detail, susceptible
of infinite variety.
He contended that Mitchell's infringement consisted in

MITCHELL V.

TILGHiMAN.

[Sup. Or.

Statement of the case.-3litchell's view of the case.

using highly heated water with neutral fat in a close vessel, and
restraining or confining it there under pressure so as to preserve the water while heated in a liquid state, and by means
of this highly heated liquid water to produce fat-acid and a
solution of glycerin.
Mitchell, on the contrary, asserted that heat alone will
decompose fats into their elements; that the decomposition
is effected by temperatures varying from about 5100 F., the
melting-point of bismuth, to 6100 F., the melting-point of
lead; that these were the very temperatures named by Tilghman as required in his process; but that in the very act
of separation they will be destroyed unless some base be
present to unite with these elements; that this destruction
so produced was the burning up, in fact, of the fat by heat;
that this effect was known to Tilghman; and that his invention consisted merely in using heat to decompose the fat by
sheer heat, and to supply, at the instant of decomposition,
water to prevent the burning up or destruction of the elements produced; that the single idea of Tilghman's patent
was the use of great heat to decompose and a contrivance
for immediately presenting particles of the aqueous agent
to fix and reunite into the new forms the decomposed
elements; that he did this by making an emulsion or mechanical mixture of fat and water; that he called for a vessel
of great strength, and proposed to work under a pressure
of 2000 pounds to the square inch; and that he loaded the
safety-valve to prevent the conversion of water into steam.
Mitchell therefore contended that from the very purpose
of his patent, Tilghman was to be confined to the very
ranges of heat above described; that it was an essential cony
dition of the patent that there should be heat not below 5100
Fahr.;* that the manipulation should be rapid, not exceeding ten minutes; that the vessel should be entirely filled with
the mixture of fatty matter and water, and that no steam
whatever should be permitted in it.
He contended, in addition, as the Reporter understood it,
* The melting-point of bismuth.

Oct. 1873.]

MITCHELL

v.

TILGHMAN.

Statement of the case.-Question in issue.

that this construction of the patent was the right one on
the face of the instrument and on principles of patent law,
independently of the alleged special design of the patentee
in framing his specification.
The evidence as to the range of heat by which fats are
destrnctively decomposed, seemed, as the Reporter read it,
to show, perhaps, that it was one of conditions.
Renwick (see infra, 857) and Rand, experts of Mitchell,
fixed the working range of Tilghman's patent at friom 440'
F. to 6600 F.; and Rand and Wayne, also his experts, testified that the chemical action is the same with water heated
and under pressure from 3000 F. to 6000 F.
From what has been said the reader will have perceived
that the first question in the case wasThe construction of the patent. Tilghman had "claimed"
as his "invention" "the manufacturing of fat-acids and
glycerin from fatty bodies by the action of water at a high
temperature and pressure," and he claimed as his invention
nothing besides. And in the opening of his specification
he declared that "for the purpose of executing his invention, he subjected these bodies to the action of water at a
high temperature and pressure," and declared nothing more.
But he had said in his specification, that he "mixed the
fatty body to be operated on with from a third to a half
of its bulk of water," and that "the mixture may be placed
in any convenient vessel in which it can be heated to the
melting-point of lead, until the operation is complete;" adding
that "the vessel must be closed and of great strength, so
that the requisite amount of pressure may be applied to
prevent the conversion of the water into steam." Saying
nothing, however, about keeping the vessel entirely full ot
the mixture.
And he had described more specially "an" apparatus by
which "the process may be performed more rapidly, and
also coitinuously, by causing the mixture of fatty matter and
water to pass through a tube heated to the temperature already
mentioned," &c., which he said he believed to be the best mode

MITCHELL V. TILGHIMAN.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.-Question in issue.

of carrying his invention into effect, but which apparatus he
stated that he "did not intend to claim as any part of his
invention."
He had stated also that "the melting-point of lead bad
been mentioned as the proper heat to be used in this operation, because it had been found to give good results; but
that the change desired took place with some materials at
or below the melting-point of bismuth ;" and "that no steam
.or air should be allowed to accumulate in the tubes, which
should be kept entirely full of the mixture;" and that although decomposition took place "with great quickness at
the proper heat," he "preferred that the mixture, while flowing through them, should be maintained at the desired temperature for ten minutes."
And be had said, when speaking of the matter of heat:
"By starting the apparatus at a low heat and gradually increasing it, the temperature giving products most suitable to
the intended application of the fatty body employed, can be deterinined."
Was, then, the invention claimed (a process) so inseparably connected with certain means, that is to say, with certain and specfc degrees of high temperature, or fulness of
vessels or tubes, or rapidity of manipulation, as that, unless
it was effected through those same specific degrees of high
temperature, or fulness of vessels or tubes, or shortness of
time, it could not be effected under the patent at all?
If this question was to be answered affirmatively there
was no necessity to make a single inquiry further :-there
was an end of the complainant's case; though, it might be
admitted, that the defendant was doing exactly that which
in the claim to his patent Tilghmau claimed as his invention, to wit, the "manufacturing of fat-acids and glycerin
from fatty bodies by the action of water at a high temperature and pressure." For however practical Tilghman's exact
methods and exact means might be-that is to say, however much and well reduced into use-the defendant confessedly was not using exactly the same methods, or ex

Oct. 1873.]

MITCHELL

v.

TILGHMAN.

Statement of the case.-Question in issue.
actly the same means, in the particulars just mentioned,
but was using methods and means different, confessedly, in
some details of both. Plainly, he did not infringe.
But if this first question was not to be answered affirmalively-if the patent was to be construed broadly rather
than closely-if Tilghman's invention was the manufacturing of fat-acids and glycerin from fatty bodies by the action
of water at a [any] high temperature, by "any convenient"
vessel, and irrespective of manipulation in a limited time,
and of tubes or vessels kept constantly and entirely full of
the mixture, then, of course, arose,
2d. A question whether he was an original inventor. And if
he was, then would arise,
3d. A question whether he hadgiven anywhere such" afull, clear,
and exact" descriptionof his invention, and of the manner of malinq
and using the same, as would enable any one skilled in the art most
nearly allied to make and use the invention; a matter required
by the Patent Acts* as a condition to the validity of any
patent granted.
And if he had given such a description, then would arise,
as one not so immediately to be answered as before,
4th. A question whether the defendant infringed the patent of
Tilghman.
It will be seen that this court in giving its judgment
took the first view of the case, that is to say, construed the
patent closely; so that the other questions possible to have
arisen in the case did not perhaps arise, nor indeed any question but the great one of the construction of the patent.
Nevertheless, a great body of evidence was given on the
assumption that the other view-that which gave to the
patent the broad construction claimed for it by the patentee
-was the true one, or might be taken by the court. The
case was argued largely on that assumption, and the questions which would necessarily arise in that view are discussed very fully in the opinion given in the case.t
Some of the evidence is, therefore, perhaps proper to be
* 5 Stat. at Large, 117.
VOL.

x=x.

t Infra, pp. 379-390.
20

1 Infra, pp. 390-418

306

MITCHELL V. TILGHMAN.

[Sup.

Ct.

Statement of the case.-Originality-Tilghman's side.

mentioned; in mentioning which the Reporter begs leave
to say that the evidence was in some parts conflicting; that
in his limited space he can present it much less perfectly
than he could desire, and as with larger space he would not
fail to endeavor to do.* H-e has also to say, that in some
of its parts the case presented recondite matters of chemical
science; matters which he confesses that he understands but
little, and is perhaps unable to understand much more. If
in any points, therefore, he has fallen into error, he asks for
excuse from any one whom he may either mislead or fail to
lead at all.
It is requisite to state that Richard Albert Tilghman, the
patentee, was a citizen of Philadelphia, and brought up a
practical chemist; that having, as lie conceived, made the
discovery that he could by the action of water at a hiqh temperature and pressure, produce free fat-acids and solution of
glycerin from fatty and oily bodies which contained glycerin
as their base, he went in 1853 to England, and there, March
25th, 1854, obtained a patent from the British government
for his invention. In the same year he got patents for the
same invention from the governments of the United States,
of France, and of Belgium; that granted by the United
States being given at supra, p. 291. He was in Europe and
America alternately, friom 1853 to 1859; and returned to
the United States in August or September of the year last
named.
I.
ORIGINALITY OF INVENTION.
THE COMPLAINANT'S SIDE OF THE QUESTION.

The fact that Tilghman was the person who first distinctly
observed and publicly announced that water, in a liquid
state, at a high temperature and under pressure, would, of
itself, and without the aid of chemical substances, separate
natural fat into its constituents of fat-acids and glycerin, did
* The records contained 1048 closely printed 8vo. pages.

Get. 1873.]

MITCHELL

v.

TILGHMAN.

Statement of the case.-Originality-Tilghman's side.

not, as the lleporter read the proofs, seem to be open to wellfounded question.
Tilghman relied on the following evidences:
I. SCIENTIFIC TREATISES.
Among these the following were specially quoted:
1. Richardson J. Watts's Chemistry Applied to the Arts, London, 1863,* where it is thus said:
"The only perfectly unobjectionable mode of obtaining glycerin, inasmuch as it alone insures the entire absence of mineral
impurities, is the decomposition of the fats by the vapor of
water at a high temperature. This mode of decomposition was
first adopted as a means of obtaining fatty acids and glycerin
by Mr. Tilghman, in 1854."
2. Musprat's Chemistry, London, 1856-8, article "Glycerin,"t where it is thus said:
"A much more economical method is that introduced by Mr.
Tilghman in 1854. By this process the fatty bodies are broken
up int6 acid and basic substances, through the agency of heat,
pressure, and steam."
3. Watts's Dictionary of Chemistry, London, 1864,1 article
"Glycerin," where it is thus said:
"By heating fats with water or with steam. This is the only
unobjectionable method of obtaining glycerin, inasmuch as it
alone insures the entire absence of mineral impurities. It was
first carried out by Mr. Tilghman in the following manner."
Tilghman's mode of working with the coil apparatus is
then described.
II.

MEN OF SCIENCE.

1. The Parisjury of savants, at the Exposition of 1855, when
speaking of Ohevreul, the eminent French chemist, say:
"We can affirm, without fbar of contradiction, that, with the
exception of the undertaking of the saponificationof the fatty bodies
by water, which remained unknown to him, he has indicated in a
* Vol. 1, part 3, p. 751.

t Vol. 2, p. 252.

I: Vol. 2, p. 886.

MITCHELL

v.

TILGEMAN.q.

[Sup. CL.

Statement of the case.-Originality-Tilghman's side.

clear and precise manner all the scientific bases upon which de.
pend the different methods of practical manufacture of the fatacids employed for making candles."
And speaking of Tilghman, under the head of "Aqueous
saponification in a close vessel," the same jury say:
"It was Mr. Richard Albert Tilghman, chemist, of Philadelphia,
who was the first who had the ideaof applying this reactionon a large
scale. In his patent taken in London, the 25th of March, 1854,
he thus sets forth his discovery, and his manner of operating:
"' 131y invention consists in a new method of obtaining free fat-acids and
solution of glycerin from animal and vegetable fatty and oily bodies which
have glycerin as their base.
My invention consists in exposing the aforesaid fats and oils to the action
of water at a high temperature and pressure, the effect of which is to cause
the combination of the water with the elements of the neutral fats, so as to
produce at the same time free fat-acids and solution of glycerin.,"

2. Professor J. C. Booth, analytical chemist, of Philadelphia, called and recalled, was thus in substance interrogat6d,
and thus in substance answered:

"Q. With whom did you study chemistry, and where? How
long have you been engaged in the profession of analytical
chemist? What posts, if any, in public institutions have you
held, and what works or papers have you written on chemistry?
"A. I studied chemistry with Wdhler, in Cassel, Germany, and
with Professor Magnus, in Berlin, during 1833, 1834, and 1835.
From 1835 to the present time I have been engaged as professional analytical chemist. I was Professor of Chemistry applied to the Arts in the Franklin Institute, Philadelphia, for ten
years; and Professor of Chemistry and Physics in the Central
High School, Philadelphia; I have been for the last eighteen
years in the United States Mint, and I still continue, independent of the mint, my profession of analytical chemist. I am
the author of the greater part of the Encyclopedia of Chemistry; of a report upon the progress of chemical manufactures
made to tbe Smithsonian Institute, at the request of the perpetual
secretary of that institute, Professor renry; I also edited the
translation of Regnault's Chemistry, translating much of it myself, and annotating it.
"Q. From your knowledge of chemistry, who would you say

Oct. 1873.]

MITciiELL

v.

TILGHMAN.

Statement of the case.-Originality-Tilghman's side.

was the discoverer of the chemical power of water in a liquid
state, at a high temperature and pressure, on fats, to produce fatacids and glycerin?
"A. Mr. R. A. Tilghman.
"Q. Do you know of any other person who has claimed the
merit of this discovery?
"A. I know of no other.
"Q. Is this discovery regarded as a new and important fact
in chemistry?
"A. It is so regarded."
3. The answer of the defendant having set up that it was
shown by a paper published in the year 1823 (Journalof
Science, London, vol. xvi, p. 172), entitled, "Ohange of Fat
in Perkins's Engine by Water, Heat, and Pressure," that
Tilghman had been anticipated in his discovery, and, as will
be hereafter seen, some reliance having been placed on that
paper, the examination of the witness thus proceeded:
9cQ. Give a list of chemical treatises that you have examined
on the subject of this discovery and its date, and particularly
with a view of showing whether it was known between 1823
and 1854, and whether it has been known since 1854.
"A. I annex a list of standard chemical treatises, of th6 highest authority, of dates between 1823 and 1854, which I have
examined. They all contain descriptions of the properties of
fat and fat-acids, and the known methods of producing fat-acids
and glycerin. None of them mention the fact that fat-acid and
glycerin can be produced by the action of water on fats at a
high temperature and pressure.
"I annex another list of standard chemical treatises of dates
subsequent to April 3d, 1854, all of which contain mention of
that chemical fact.
-1"therefore infer and conclude that that chemical fact was
first made known subsequent to 1852, and prior to April 3d,
1854.
List of treatisespublished between 1823 and 1854, which
do not mention the chemical fact.
Dumas's Chemistry, vol. 5. Paris, 1835.
Berzelius's Chemistry, vol. 2. Brussels, 1888.

MITCHELL V. TILGHMAN.

[Sup. Ct

Statement of the case.-Originality-Tilghman's side.
Ure's Dictionary of Chemistry. London, 1831.
Brande's Chemistry. London, 1841.
Graham's Chemistry. London and Philadelphia, 1843.
Booth's Encyclopedia of Chemistry. Philadelphia, 1850.
Regnault's Chemistry. Paris and Philadelphia, 1852.
Gerhardt's Chemistry. Paris, 1854.
Gmelin's Chemistry, vol. 7. London, 1852.
Pelouze & Fremy. Chemistry. Paris, 1850.

List of chemical treatisespublished after April 3d, 1854, which
do mention that chemical fact.
Comtes Rendues. Paris, April 3d, 1854.
Liebig & Kopp's Year-book. Giessen, 1855.
Miller's Chemistry. London, 1862.
Watts's Dictionary of Chemistry. London, 1864.
Gmelin's Chemistry, vol. 16. London, 1864.
5Musprat's Dictionary of Chemistry, vol. 2. London, about 1856-8.
Chemical Gazette. London, 1856.

"Q. State what technical works on the subject of the manufacture of fat-acid, published between 1823 and 1854, you have

examined, and whether any of them contains any description
or notice of the process of manufacturing fat-acid and glycerin
from fats by the action of water at a high temperature and
pressure.
"A. I have examined the following technical works, all of
which contain descriptions of the various processes for the
manufacture of fat-acids. None of them mentions or refers to
the process for the manufacture of fat-acid and glycerin by the
action of water on fats at a high temperature and pressure.
Chevreul & GCky-Lussac's Patent. Paris, 1825.
Hibert's Encyclopedia. London, 1838.
Dumas's Chemistry, vol. 6. Paris, 1863.
Parnell's Applied Chemistry, vol. 2. London, 1844.
Knapp's Technology. London and Philadelphia, 1848.
Roret's Encyclopedia. Fat-Acids. Paris, 1849.
Morfit's Chemistry of Soap and Candles, 1st edition. Philadelphia.
Payen's Chemistry. Paris, 1851.
Official Report of London Exhibition. London, 1851.
Tomlinson's Cyclopedia of Arts. London, 1852.
Appleton's Dictionary. Nbew York, 1852.
Ure's Dictionary of Arts. Boston, 1853.

"Q. State what technical works on the subject, published
since 1854, you have examined, and whether they mention the

Oct. 1873.]

MITCHELL

v.

TILGHMAN.

Statement of the case.-Originality-Tilghnian's side.

process of manufacturing fat-acids and glycerin by the
of water on fat at a high temperature and pressure, and to
they refer as the inventor of that process.
"A. I have examined the following technical works.
all mention the water process, and refer to Tilghman
inventor:

action
whom
They
as its

Bulletin da la Soci6t6 d'Encouragement. Paris, 1855.
Morfit's Chemistry of Soap and Candles, 2d edition. London and Philadelphia, 1856.
Official Report of London Exhibition. London, 1863.
Richardson& 'Watts's Technology, vol. 1, part 3. London, 1863.
Repertory of Patent Inventions, 3d series, vol. 24, page 408. London,
1854.
Mechanics' Magazine, vol. 61, page 111. London, 1854.
Newton's Journal of the Arts and Sciences, vol. 45. London, 1854.
Franklin Institute Journal, 3d series, vol. 29, page 36. Philadelphia, 1855.

" Q. Please state in general terms the result of your examination of the standard chemical and technical publications.
"A. No one of the technical treatises or chemical works, published prior to 1854, contains any mention either of the chemical
fact of the decomposition of fat by water at a high temperature
and pressure, or of the manufacturing process founded upon it.
After 1854 both the chemical fact and the manufacturing process are mentioned in numerous technical and chemical publications."
The testimony of4. Professor B. -E. Rogers, Professor of Chemistry for ten
years in the University of Virginia; Professor of the same
science for eighteeu years in the University of Penusylvania; editor of the last American edition of Turner's Chemistry,
5. Professor Wolcott Gibbs, who had studied with Professor
Hare, of Philadelphia; with Dr. Torrey, of New York; with
Professors Ramelsberg and Rose in Berlin, Prussia, and with
Liebig in Giessen; for ten years Professor of Chemistry
and Physics in the Free Academy in New York, and now
Rumford Professor in Harvard University,
6. Professor . A. Genth, student for two years with Professor Gmelin; for two with Liebig and others; for three

[Sup. Ct.

MITCHELL V. TILGHMAN.

Statement of the case.-Originality-Tilgb man's side.

years assistant to Bunsen; for two years Professor in the
University of Marburg,
7. Professor Robert Bridges, Professor of Chemistry in the
Philadelphia College of Pharmacy; editor of Graham's
Chemistry, and of several editions of Fowne's Chemistry,all sustained the assertion of Professor Booth as to the
originality of Tilghman with the invention.
Professor Gibbs thus testified:

"Q. State when and by whom your attention was first called
to the question of the novelty of the plaintiff's patented invention, as affected by defendant's exhibits. State whether you
then made a full investigation of the subject, and a report, and
state the substance of any such report.
"A. My attention thereto was first called by Mr. Mitchell, the
defendant, in the early part of the year 1863. I then made a
fall investigation of the subject at his request, and gave him a
written opinion, the substance of which was that the plaintiff's
invention was new."
8. The testimony of the Patent Offiee. In 1858, Mr. Werk, a
manufacturer of candles in Cincinnati, and afterwards sued
by Tilghman as an infringer of his patent, applied to the
Patent Office for an improved treatment of fatty acids
through the aqueous process. He was thus replied to by
the Honorable Joseph Holt, then Commissioner of Patents:
"'UNITED

STATES PATENT OFFICE,

, " June 26th, 1858.

" Si: Your application for a patent for an improved treatment of fatty acids has been examined. You are referred to
Regnault's Chemistry, vol. ii, p. 1594; to Payen's Chemie Industrielle, p. 771, and to the patents of iR. A. Tilghman, January,
1855, and October, 1854. Mr. T. is the acknowledged discoverer
of this process. The application is refused fbr want of novelty.
"Respectfully yours, &c.,
"J.
"

. WERIK, EsQ."

HOLT,
Commissioner.

9. The London International -Exhibition of 1862.

At this

exhibition one of the juries, reporting on the subject of oils,
fats, wax, and their products, and referring to the efforts

Oct. 1873.]

MITCHELL

v.

TILGHMAN.

Statement of the case.-Originality-Tilghman's side.

made "as early as 1855," by M. De Milly, to modify the
process of saponification by means of lime, said:
"Instead of effecting this decomposition at a temperature of
2120, and employing 14 per cent. of lime, he raised the temperature by working under pressure and employing only 4 per cent.
of lime.
"At the present time M. De Milly has, indeed, reduced the
proportion of lime to 2J per cent. This process has been imitated in Austria. Undoubtedly it constitutes a real improvement upon the ordinary method of saponification by lime; but
in spite of this considerableimprovement, which is in fact but a combination of .Mr. Tilghman's mode of saponificationby water at a high
temperature,* combined with the lime process, we cannot believe
that these two methods of saponification, under any modification
at present attempted, can, in an economical point of view, successfully compete with the sulphuric saponification."
10. Medal of .Honor. The report of the same exhibitiont
contains this:
" MEDALS.

"UNITED STATES: TILGHMAN, for fatty acids obtained by aqueous
saponification."

Hf.

MANUFACTURERS OF CANDLES.

1. Mr. G. F. Wilson, managing agent of Price & Co.'s
Patent Candle Company, at Battersea, London-the largest
candle factory in the world-who, it appeared, was besides
a man of education and had made the general and particular
matters now under consideration the subject of learned research, and was in the habit of writing and lecturing upon
them, affirmed that Tilghman was the discoverer of the invention claimed by him. In a public lecture, delivered by
him in January, 1856, before the Society of Arts, in London,
he said:
"In January, 1854, Mr. Tilghman, an American chemist, who
has studied all that has been published here and in France on
tho subject of acidification and distillation of fatty bodies, ob.
Specimens of which are exhibited in the American Department.
Rage 7.

MITCHELL V.

TILGHMAN.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.-Originality-Mitchell's side.
tained a patent for exposing fats and oils to the action of watet
at a high temperature, and under great pressure, in order to
cause the combination of the water with the elements of the
neutral fats, so as to produce at the same time free fat-acids and
solution of glycerin. He proposed to effect this by pumping a
mixture of fat and water, by means of a force-pump, through a
coil of pipe heated to about 6120 Fahr., kept under a pressure
of about 2000 pounds to the square inch; and he states that the
vessel must be closed so that the requisite amount of pressure
may be applied to prevent the conversion of water into steam.
This is, all must admit, a beautiful, original chemical idea, well
carried out."
The defendant, Mr. _R. G. Mitchell, who was a witness, testified that the process by water, heat, and pressure alone had
not been known to him before the date of Tilghman's patent,
nor indeed known to him until four years afterwards. He
said :
"I have known for more than forty years that fats were acidified by moisture. I never knew that fat-acids and glycerin
could be obtained from fats by heat, water, and pressure until I
heard of it in connection with the patent of Wright & Fouch4
in 1859."
ORIGINALITY OF INVENTION.
THE DEFENDANT'S SIDE OF THE QUESTION.

I.

SCIENTIFIC

TREATISES.

iNo scientific treatise was produced which denied, with
mention of Tilghman's name, or by specific reference to
what he asserted to be his, that he had discovered what in
the claim to his patent he claimed as his invention. An extract from a paper in the Journal of Sciences, vol. xvi, p. 172,
published in London in 1823, entitled, " Change of Fat iii
Perkins's Engine by Water, Heat, and Pressure," and made
by the defendant an Exhibit (E) in the case, and somewhat
relied on by him, mentioned that
"Mr. Perkins used in his steam-cylinder a mixture of about
equal parts of Russia tallow and olive oil to lubricate the pis.
ton and diminish friction; that the mixture was consequently

Oct. 1873.]

MITCHELL V. TILGHMAN.

Statement of the case.-Originality- Mitchell's side.

exposed to the action of steam at considerable pressure and temperature; and, being carried on by steam, it was found in the
water, giving rise to peculiar appearances."
A particular account, too long to be here inserted, was
annexed.
I.

MEN OF SCIENCE.

1. Professor P. H. Vanderweyde, a native of Holland, educated in chemistry at the Royal University of Delft, M.D.,
Professor of Chemistry in the New York Medical College,
and in the Cooper Institute, and fifteen years in America,
was at different times asked and answered thus:

"Q. From your knowledge of chemistry, would you say that
complainant was the discoverer of the power of water under
heat and pressureto dissolve fats into acids and glycerin ?
"A. The more my information about the matter has increased
the more I am convinced that the power of water to decompose
fats into the fatty acids and glycerin was known a long time
before the date of Mr. Tilghman's patent.
"Q. Do you know, or did you ever hear of any standard
chemical treatise or book, which states that complainant made
any chemical discovery as to the decomposition of fats into fatacids and glycerin ?
"A. I do not know, nor did I ever hear of such a statement;
and, in those standard works; when Mr. Tilghman's process is
mentioned at all, it is stated simply that he took out a patent
for a certain apparatus."
Cross-examined.
"Q. State who was the first person, within your knowledge,
who made the explicit statement that fat-acids and solution of
glycerin could be obtained for manufacturing purposes by the
action of liquid water on neutral fatty bodies at temperatures
above 3500 Fahrenheit; and state when and where such state-

ment was made.
"A. I am not aware that any other man made that precise
statement, with all the special conditions mentioned in the question, before Mr. Tilghman.

"Q. Who was the first person who got so far as to use I water

S16

MITCHELL v. TILGHMAN.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.-Originality-Mitchell's side.

alone' in the practical manufacture of stearie and margaric acid,
and oleic acid, and glycerin, from neutral fat?
"A. I know not who the first person was who practically
manufactured stearic and the other fatty acids besides glycerin,
from the fats by means of water alone; but I know that Mr.
Tilghman took a patent for that purpose. I doubt, however, if
it was ever put in practical operation. Surely not to make
glycerin."
2. The defendant having put in evidence an extract from
the Journal of Science, London, 1823, vol. xvi, p. 172, entitled "Change of Fat in Perkins's Engine, by Water, Heat,
and Pressure," which paper was marked "Exhibit E"
(quoted supra, p. 314)Florence Verdin, partner of the defendant, under the firm
name of Mitchell & Co., and who testified that he had an
interest against the patent, and if in the present suit a sum
of money was decreed to be paid to the complainant, he
would be, he supposed, responsible for one-half, had testified,
in 1868, in another case (all the testimony in which was received by consent), as follows:

"Q. Would not any manufacturer of ordinary skill and information in his art, as current prior to 1854, have known from
Exhibit E that fat-acids and glycerin were produced by the action of water at a high temperature and pressure, and does not
the presence of acrolein involve the production of glycerin ?
"A. Ishould have known it, and I cannot doubt others would,
as a person had only to subject the fat to the action of water at
a temperature and pressure named to have acidified fats; acrolein cannot be formed without glycerin being formed first..
"Q. Do you know of any standard chemical treatise or book
which states that the complainant has made any chemical discovery in reference to the decomposition of fats into fat-acids
and glycerin ?
"A. I do not know of any such works which give Tilghman
the credit of being a chemical discoverer.
"Q. Did you ever hear of any standard chemical treatise or
nook -which ascribes to the complainant any such discovery?
"A. I have never heard of any.
"Q. Are technical works of any value to tlbe manufacturers

Oct. 1873.]

MITCHELL V. TILGHMAN.

Statement of the case.-Practicalness-Tilghman's side.

of fat-acids and candles, so far as you have examined them,
and if so, what?
"A. They have never been to me; my knowledge was always
superior to theirs; they are generally more likely to mislead
the manufacturers than to benefit them.
" Q. Is the information communicated in Tilghman's patent
of 1854 of any more value to a manufacturer of fat-acids and
candles than that which is found in defendant's Exhibit E?
"A. I think there is no difference between the two, and I
have always thought, and think so yet, that the patent of Mr.
Tilghman had been copied from Exhibit E."
Cross-examined.

"Q. When did you first see it stated in a book or document
that highly heated water under pressure would, without the aid
of chemicals, decompose neutral fat into fat-acid and a solution
of glycerin ?
"A. I don't know when.
"Q. Can you swear you ever saw that statement prior to the
date of Mr. Tilghman's patent, January, 1854?
"A. I cannot."
3. See also testimony of Drs. Rand and Wayne, infra, pp.

355-357.
II.
CAPACITY FOR PRACTICAL USE.
THE COMPLAINANT'S SIDE OF THE QUESTION.

How far Tilghman's discovery or invention had been or
could be carried on so as to be practically, that is to say,
commercially, of value by the rapid manipulation described
by him, or with the very high degrees of heat which he mentioned, or with the vessels filled with the mixture alone,assuming that either rapidity, or specific degrees of high
heat, or entire absence of steam from the vessel in which
his mixture was to be put, were an essential part of his invention as patented,-seemed, as the Reporter read the evidence, to be a matter less clear than that he was the true
and first discoverer of what in the claim to his patent he
claimed as his invention.

MITCHELL V. TILGHMAN.

LSup.

OtX

Statement of the case.-Practicalness-Ti]gbman's side.

As on the first point, the evidence relied on by him was
that of books of science, and more particularly of men of
science and manufacturers of candles.
I.

SCIENTIFIC TREATISES.

1. Richardson & Watts's Chemistry (quoted supra, p. 307):
"The only perfectly unobjectionable mode of obtaining
glycerin."
2. Musprat's Chemistry; article, "Glycerin" (quoted ut
supra): "A4 much more economical method is that introduced by Mr. Tilghman."
3. Watts's Dictionary; article, "Glycerin" (quoted ut supra): "This is the only unobjectionable mode."
I.

MEN OF SCIENCE.

1. Professor J. C. Booth, already described, thus testified:
"I tried the second apparatus indicated in the patent, with
an apparatus quite similar to the drawing accompanying the
specification to Mr. Tilghman's patent, except that the coil was
circular, rising in a continuous spiral coil from below upwards,
so that the exit-pipe came from the upper part instead of the
lower, as indicated in said drawing.
C"As we obtained at the rate of four hundred to four hundred
and fifty pounds in twenty-four hours, in so small an apparatus,
and as the product consisted of fat-acid and glycerin, I regard
the process as a most perfect manufacturing process; that is,
making fat-acid and glycerin in an economical manner, and
adapted to commercial uses.
"By comparing the solid fat-acids obtained by the coil apparatus,; and subsequent clarification and pressure, with the solid
fat-acids obtained in Grant's candle factory, in Philadelphia, by
the sulphuric saponification, I believe that the product of the
coil apparatus is fit for making candles. By comparing the
glycerin which I obtained by the coil apparatus with several
kinds of glycerin of commerce, I believe that the coil apparatus
will make a glycerin, suitable for commercial purposes, equal to
that produced by any other process, after resorting to the usual
method of purification."
2. Professor Rogers, already described:
"I was present at the trial of the process of the complainant,

Oct. 1873.)

MITCHELL V.

TILGHMAN.

Statement of the case.-Practicalness-Tilghman's side.

in the coil apparatus, in company with Professors Booth and
Bridges, and Mr. R. A. Tilghman. It is my opinion, and not
only my opinion, but my thorough conviction, that it is a process
altogether adapted to carrying out the method of Mr. Tilghman.
"The odor of the products evinced nothing offensive which
would indicate the presence of acrolein as a hurtful substance,
the small amount of oxide of iron being an accidental and not
necessarily present substance, and was readily removable."
3. Professor Bridges, already described, stated that he had
been present at the trial of the apparatus referred to; that
the trial was made at "about the temperature of the melting
of lead." He exhibited specimens of the lard stearin used,
and some of the results of the operation, describing particularly how they were obtained. He concluded by saying:
"From the amount of the material used during the operation,
and from the character of the results, I consider the apparatus
of Tilghman as one capable of carrying on, in a practical manner, his process."
II. MANUFACTURERS OF CANDLES.
1. In June, 1854, Tilghman exhibited his patent and his
coil apparatus to Mr. G. F. Wilson, above named as the
managing director of Price & Co.'s large candle company
in England, and made experiments with it before him. On
the 13th of December, 1855, after having thus seen it, that
company agreed to pay Tilghman 1000 sterling a year for
the use of that patent, and some minor ones of less importance that expired prior to 1859, they, Price & Co., being
free to terminate the arrangement at any time by giving
Tilghman two years' notice. They had not terminated it in
May, 1864, when the testimony to prove facts just stated
was taken, but had, since 1859, paid in each year, and in
1864 were still paying to Tilghman the 1000 sterling for
the use of his patent of 9th January, 1854, alone.
2. So a certain Monier, of Paris, one of the managing
ngents of the Soci&1 Gnbrale de Slearinerie,at Villette, near
Paris, having seen Tilghman's apparatus at Tilghman's laboratory in London, in June,1854, and samples of fat-acid and

MITCHELL V. TILGHMAN.

[Sup. 0t.

Statement of the case.-Practicalness-Tilghman's side.

glycerin said to have been produced by it, made a preliminary agreement with Tilghman that "after experiments had
been made to enable Monier to judge of the efficacy and
reality of the invention," a contract by which they were "to
buy the absolute, general, and exclusive license for the new
processes of Mr. R. A. Tilghman, giving him a royalty in
money," should be made before a. notary. The coil apparafus
was brought to Paris and worked at Monier's factory; many
experiments being made with it. It was worked both by
band and by steam-power. A contract in form was then
made between Tilghman and Monier, and 15,000 francs
were paid to Tilghman. Tilghman and his brother then
attempted to make a large apparatus at Monier's factory at
Paris. This occupied nearly six months; a good deal of
what was done having been superintended by Tilghman's
brother, and not by him; he having been ill a short part of
the time, and for much the greatest absent in America.
The experiments, owing to causes about which Tilghman
and Monier disagreed, were unsuccessful, and the contract
was annulled by consent of both parties. Tilghman having
returned to France, a new contract was made with him, and
12,000 or 15,000 francs paid to him; and more experiments
made in Paris. Theytoo, were unsuccessful; Tilgbman and
Monier disagreeing as before about the cause. Tilghman
being now in Philadelphia, Monier, representing that the
agreement between them was verbal, and not producing the
written contract, sued him in one of the inferior courts
of Paris, claiming damages in 25,000 francs. Judgment
by default for want of an appearance was got by Monier,
and damages given in 2000 francs. Tilghman, in America,
bearing of this, ordered an appeal to be taken, and one was
taken. The appeal, however, was not prosecuted. A compromise was made between the parties by which 1000 francs
were paid to Tilghman, the lawsuit discontinued, all previous engagements made "null and of no effect," and Tilghman left free to "re-enter into the free use and enjoyment
of his patents."
3. The testimony of Charles Taylor Jones, of Cincinnati, since

Oct. 1873.]

MITCHELL V. TILGHMAN.

Statement of the case.-Practical ness-Tilghm an's side.

1849 a member of the firm of Gross & Dietrich, manufacturers of candles.

"Q. State the process first employed by you for decomposing
fats into fat-acids and solution of glycerin.
"A. The first process used by me was that of saponification
with about fourteen per cent. of lime, in open vessels, and decomposing the lime-soap thus obtained with sulphuric acid; the
quantity of sulphuric acid requisite being about two and a half
pounds to each pound of lime.
"Q. What was the next process, and what advantages had it
over the first? And why did you abandon it?
"A. The next process was saponification under pressure of
about 130 lbs. to the square inch, with six to seven per cent. of
lime, and a corresponding diminution of sulphuric acid. It had
the advantage over the first process of diminishing the cost of
the operation just as much as the lime and sulphuric acid was
diminished. This process was abandoned for another, which
enabled me to dispense entirely with the use of lime and sulphuric acid.
"Q. State what process you now use and what are its advantages; and also, whether you practice the said process by a
license from the complainant, and have paid and are to continue
to pay him for its use.
"A. I use the process patented to Tilghman, the advantages
of which, over all other processes known to me, are, that it
enables me to produce fat-acids without the use of lime or sulphuric acid. I practice this process by a license from the complainant, and have paid and am to continue to pay him for its
use.
"Q. State how much fat has been decomposed at your factory
by the action of water only at a high temperature and corresponding steam pressure of 300 lbs. to the square inch.
"A. About 90,000 lbs.
"Q. How much fit is treated at each charge of the apparatus?
And how much fat could you decompose per week, if working
night and day, at 300 lbs. pressure, at the same rate you have
obtained in working by daylight only ?
"A. From 6000 lbs. to 7000 lbs. of ftt is treated at each charge
of the apparatus, and I could decompose about 150,000 lbs. per
week by continuous work.
VOL. XIX.

21

MITCHELL

v.

TILGHMAN.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.-Practicalness-Tilghman's side.

"Q. State how long it takes, in your apparatus, after the
charge has been heated up, to decompose it into fat-acid and
glycerin by the action of water alone at 300 lbs. steam pressure.
"A. About five hours.
"Q. Would you have any difficulty in continuing to work by
water only if you desired to do so?
"A. I think not.
"Q. Have you. any specimens of stearic acid and of candles
made from fat decomposed at your factory by water only? If
so, produce them, and mark them.
"A. I have such specimens. Here they are, marked as directed.
"Q. How much fat have you worked, in all, under the complainant's patent when using one-half per cent. of lime in addition to the action of the heated water? And how long has youi
factory been working Tilghman's process?
"A. I have treated 738,000 lbs. of fat in which a
half per
cent. of lime was used; and I have been using Tigbman's process since the first of November last.
"Q. Examine the first-described process in the complainant's
patent, and state whether or not you would infer therefrom that
the strong vessel mentioned was to be entirely filled up with oil
and water, so as to leave no steam-room whatever in the vessel.
"A. I have examined this part of the patent, and I can see
nothing in it requiring the vessel named to be completely filled
with oil and water.
"Q. State whether there are reasons, obvious to any one
accustomed to steam-boilers, why said vessels should or should
not be entirely full, and state such reasons.
"A. There are reasons which I should think would be entirely obvious to one accustomed to steam-boilers why said
vessels should not be perfectly filled with oil and water; the
prominent one of which, to my mind, would be the danger of
applying even a moderate heat to the vessel, under such circumstances, inasmuch as the expansion of the contents under only
a moderate heat might rend the vessel asunder.
"Q. Examine the second-described process in the complainant's patent, and state whether or not you can see reasons for
the direction there given, to keep the tubes entirely fall of
liquid, and not to allow steam to accumulate in then; if yea,
state such reasons in detail.

Oct. 1873.1

MITCHELL v. TULGHMAN.

Statement of the case.-Praticalriess-Tilghman's side.
"A. T sce no reasons given therefor, in that second part of
the patent. Obvious reasons for that direction occur to my
mind as a manufacturer, which are the avoidance of irregular
working of the machinery indicated, and consequently increased
strain and wear of the machinery.
"Q. Do you know the rules for calculating the strength of
cylindrical iron boilers? If yea, calculate thereby the strength
of perfectly welded iron tubes of the dimensions directed to be
used in the second-described apparatus in plaintiff's patent.
"A. I know the rules which I believe to be generally adopted
for calculating the strength of boilers. By that rule I compute
the strength of the tubes alluded to in the second part of the
plaintiff's patent, at 60,000 lbs.; that is, it would take 60,000
lbs. to burst them."
Cross-examined.

"Q. In the first process used by you, was not water used, and
were fats ever decomposed into fat-acids and a solution of glycerin without the intervention of water, which was always necessarily present when glycerin was obtained, and generally used
in connection with steam?
"A. Water was used in the first process described, but in
quantity only slightly in excess of that requisite for preparing
the milk of lime. I do not know of the decomposition of neutral fats into fat-acids and a solution of glycerin ever having
been attained without the intervention of water. Within the
limits of my experience or knowledge, steam has always been
an agent in the process.
"Q. When was the second process, described by you, first
used by yourself?
"A. In the fall of 1859.
"Q. You state you use the process patented to Mr. Tilghman.
Describe in detail that process, as used in your factory.
"A. I place the melted fht to be treated in a large vessel with
water, equal to one-half the bulk or weight of the fat, or in
excess of that proportion, and subject the charge to a pressure
of steam, 300 lbs. to the square inch, for a period of about five
hours, keeping the water and fat in intimate contact by pumping the water from the bottom to the top, and discharging it
on the surface of the fat to make its way to the bottom. I
prefer, however, to use half of one per cent. of lime, inasmuch

MITOHELL v. TILGHMAN.

[Slip. CL

Statement of the case.-Practiealne s-Tilgh niuD's side.

as that quantity of alkali enables me to perfect the decomposition in four hours' working, at a pressure of 250 lbs. per square
inch, with material economy of fuel, and of wear and tear of
machinery. Since ascertaining the advantages of this mode I
have adhered to it.
" Q. Describe particularly when your apparatus waq first put
in operation, under whose superintendence, where made, the
size, construction, shape, materials that compose it, its capacity
and cost, the quantity of fat and water put into the apparatus
at one time, how full at each charge, and the disposition made
of the products after it was decomposed.
"A. -Myapparatus was first put in operation in September,
1863, under the superintendence of R A. Tilghman. The vessel
in which the fat is treated was made in Philadelphia. This
vessel comprises a tube of about thirty-eight feet in length and
thirty-eight inches in internal diameter, made of iron plates of
half-inch thickness, and a copper tube of nearly the same length,
and ahout thirty-five inches diameter, placed inside the iron
tube so as to leave an annular space of about one and a half
inches between the copper and iron vessel. The estimated capacity of the vessel is about 10,000 lbs. of oil and water, and the
quantity usually put into the vessel at one time is 6000 lbs. of
fat, and about 4000 lbs. of water, which is held by the copper
vessel mentioned above, and serves to fill it within about three
feet of the head or top. When the decomposition is perfected,
the water holding the glycerin in solution is discharged into its
proper receptacle, and the fat-acids into their place.
"Q. Explain why two tubes are used instead of one, and why
they are of different metals.
"A. Because the cheapness of iron, and its greater strength
as compared with copper, suggested its use to resist the great
requisite pressure, and the inner vessel was introduced to save
the iron from contact with the fat-acids, which would rapidly
corrode the iron, and soon render such iron vessel unfit for use.
-Q. In the description of the operation now used by you, you
mention oil and water as the contents of the boiler. When no
lime is used, are the products satisfactory?
"A. The products are satisfactory when no lime is used. I
have treated fourteen or fifteen charges of 6000 lbs. to 7000 lbs.
of fat, each with water alone. The reasons for adding lime in
subsequent treatments was the desire to diminish the pressure,

Oct. 1873.]

MITCHELL

r.

TILGHMAN.

Statement f tue case.-Practicalness-Tilghman's side.
and this course has been persevered in, not only because that
object was attained, but because an economy was effected in
fuel, labor, and time.
"Q. Do you now state that in order to make the process with
the greatest economy in practice, the aid of the pump to circulate the water and oil freely, and the presence of lime in the
propQrtion described by you, are necessary?
I"A. I do not know that a less quantity of lime would not suffice, but I do regard the uwc of the pump and of some lime essential to the use of my apparatus with the greatest economy.
"Q. By whose direction do you use the pump and the percentage of lime now employed by you ?
"A. The pump was an original part of the apparatus named,
and its use directed by the complainant. I use the lime solely
for my own convenience and advantage, at my own instance,
without direction.
"Q. Who was present when you first employed lime in the
process; and who first suggested its use ?
"A. Some of my employ~s were the only ones present when
lime was first used. The suggestion of its use, I think, was
made by my foreman at the factory.
"Q. Is not lime used in the process produced by the apparatus
of Mr. Tilghman, in every instance, so far as your knowledge
extends, when said apparatus is used?
"A. I believe it is.
"Q. Why?
"A. I believe it is used for the same reasons that I use it,
namely, to economize time and cost.
"Q. State whether any one in your manufactory ever mixed
a fatty body with from a third to a half of its bulk of water, and
placed the mixture in any convenient vessel in which it could
ne heated to the melting-point of lead; that is, to 6000 Fahrenheit, until the operation was completed, the product being free
fat-acid and a solution of glycerin ?
"A. No.
"Q Have you always used the pump in your apparatus?
"A. I have invariably used the pump.
"Q. State how long it takes to heat up the charge in your
apparatus.
"A. I have not noted the time. The water is heated up to a
temperature indicated by a pressure of 250 lbs. to the square

MITCHELL

v.

TILGHMAN.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.-Practicalness-Tilghman's side.
inch, before its introduction to the vessel in which the fat is decomposed; and the pump is set to work immediately after the
water has been introduced. This water is heated in the boilers
which supply the steam pressure, and is blown up from them
into the vessel containing the fat.
"Q. In your examination in chief, you state that you have
examined the first-described process in the complainant's patent
and could see nothing in it requiring the vessel named to be
completely filled with oil and water; please quote from the said
specification any part which states that the convenient vessel
thercin mentioned should not be completely filled with fat, and
water, or any passage implying the same.
"A. There is no part of the said specification which requires
explicitly or implicitly that the said vessel should not be completely filled.
"Q. Do you now say that, by a plain interpretation of said
specification, as a manufacturer, you would not infer that said
vessel was to be completely filled with oil and water?
"A. I do now say that, as a manufheturer, I would not infer
that a plain interpretation thereof would require the vessel to
be completely filled with fat and water.
"Q. Have you ever used, for the manufacture of fat-acids and
glycerin, such an apparatus as is described in the second part of
the complainant's patent?
"A. I have not.
"Q. Please quote from the complainant's patent the words
explicitly or implicitly requiring or authorizing the use of a
pump and one-half per cent. of lime as used in complainant's
apparatus, now employed in your factory.
"A. I find no such words.
"Q. Is there anything to that effect in the patent as reduced
to practice in your factory?
"A. I believe not, sir.
"Q. State how the steam pressure of your apparatus is pro.
duced, and how it is applied.
"A. It is produced by cylindrical boilers, which are twentyfour inches in diameter and about thirty-fbur feet long, of which
there are two. The steam generated in them is introduced into
the upper part of the digester, and into an angular space between the iron and copper vessels composing the digester, the
iron vessel being closed steam-tight, and the upper part of the

Oct. 1873.]

MITCHELL

v.

TILGHMAN.

Statement of the case.-Praeticalness-Tilghman s side.

copper vessel sufficiently open to admit the steam directly into
contact with the charge."
Be-examined.

"Q. You have stated the use of the pump in the apparatus
erected by the plaintiff at your faetory, to be the circulation of
the water through the oil under treatment; now state, from an
examination of the second-described apparatus in Tilghman's
patent, whether or not provision has been made for producing
this thorough mixture of the fat and water befbre it went into
the apparatus, as well as fbr renewing the state of mixture,
should it be necessary, within the apparatus itself.
"A. It seems to me that provision has been made for effecting
and renewing that intimate mixture; not having used the apparatus described in the second part of the plaintiff's patent, I
cannot speak from experience.
"Q. Has the pump employed in your apparatus ever failed to
act? Of what material is it composed ?
"A. It has not. It is composed of bronze."
IV.

OTHER PROOFS.

1. Tilghman offered to show to the defendant his coil apparatus
practically at work, and the offer was declined.
Just before the testimony had been closed, Mitchell asked
for the inspection of Tilghman's apparatus. The examiner's
minutes proceed:
"March 24, 1864. Tilghman replied:
"' That the coil apparatus is very weighty and bulky, and was
dismantled at the request of Professors Booth and Bridges, the
day after the experiments therewith were tried by them, in order
to enable them to examine its interior construction and dimensions; that to get the coil apparatus again in working order,
and try new experiments, would require considerable time and
delay the hearing; that the defendant neglected to make his
request until the moment of adjournment on the day originally
fixed for closing the testimony; that the complainant has, however, caused the same experiments to be repeated in a more
portable apparatus, which he produces and now formally offers
to experiment with it, and try any pertinent experiment in the
presence of defendant, on FridaLy, March 25th, at any suitable

MITCHELL

v.

TILGHMAN.

[Sup. Ot.

Statement of the case.-Practicalness-Tilghmaa's side.
place and hour which defendant will now indicate; it being understood also that such experiments tried for defendant are not
to be permitted to delay the hearing.'"
To this offer the defendant made no reply.
Tilghman subsequently thus addressed his counsel:
"April 5th, 1864.
"Sir: The only objection which the complainant had to the
repeating of his experiments on the coil apparatus was the risk
of delaying the hearing to the next term.
"As the court has ordered that the case shall still be heard
this term, though at a later day, the complainant now offers to
repeat the experiment tried by Professors Booth, Rogers, and
Bridges, in the presence of the defendant; and requests the defendant to signify his acquiescence or refusal of this proposition
within five days. If accepted, the complainant will at once have
his apparatus put in order, and then appoint the earliest day
which may be convenient to both parties for the defendant to
visit complainant's laboratory in Philadelphia, and see the process in action.
"Very truly yours,
'KR. A. TILGHMAN.
"G. C. GODDARD, ESQ.,
"Solicitor for defendant, 17 William Street, New York."

And thus subsequently (inclosing a copy of the letter)
again :
" PHILADELPHIA,
April 13th, 1864.
"Sia: On the 5th instant I mailed to you the notice of which
the following is a copy. requesting the favor of an answer within
five days.
"For fear that you did not receive it, I now send this copy of
my former note, requesting the favor of an answer accepting or
declining my proposition within the five days after your receipt
of this present notice, inasmuch as I have other engagements to
which I wish to attend. I would also thank you to acknowledge
the receipt of my former notice, if it was received by you.
"Very respectfully yours,
"R. A.
"1G. C

TILGHMAN.

GODDARD, ESQ,

"Solicitof for defendant, 17 William Street, New York."

Oct. 1873.]

MITCHELL V.

TILGHMAY.

Statement of the case.-Practicalness-Tilghman's side.

Mr. Goddard, the counsel, thus replied:
",NEw YoRx, April 15th, 1864.

Yours of the 13th is received, as was yours of
"DEAR Si:
the 4th or 5th, to which I think I made answer.
"After the use of your coil apparatus by us was declined by
you, we made arrangements which we hope will supersede the
necessity of making experiments on yours. Should we change
our minds, and desire to experiment on yours, we will advise
you; but atpresent we do not.
" GEORGE (C. GODDARD.
9"Mn.

R. A.

TILGHMA'."

The minutes of testimony taken before the examiner next
contained the following:
IIMay 6t, 1864.
"Coursel for the defendant offers to repeat the experiments
in the coil apparatus, and on the Scharling apparatus, in the
presence of complainant, and make alterations therein to make
it confo m to complainant's patent, if any are necessary; it
being ui derstood that such experiments are to be made at a
time wh'ch will give opportunity to give evidence in this cause
in respect thereto. Also to repeat the experiments on the
Scharliny apparatus, in complainant's presence.
"Mr. Harding, in behalf of M r. Tilghman, replies by giving
in evidence the offers contained in Mr. Tilghman's letter of
April 13th, 1864, to G. C. Goddard, Esq., the defendant's counsel, together with the reply, April 15th, 1864, of the said counsel;
and further refers to his offer to repeat the complainant's experiments on the digester, contained in the record of the date
of March 24th, 1864. And adds that, as the complainant has a
complete apparatus, constructed in accordance with his patent,
the successful operation of which he has proved by disinterested
expertn, and has repeated the offer to exhibit to the defendants,
he cannot see anyreason why he should occupy time in altering
the apparatus now at the defendant's works, especially since
the time for closing testimony and the day of hearing will not
leaio time to reopen this matter."

MITCHELL V. TILGHMAN.

[Sup. Ct

Statement of the case.-Practicalness-Mitchell's side.

CAPACITY FOR PRACTICAL USE.
THE DEFENDANT'S SIDE OF THE QUESTION.
I. SCIENTIFIC TREATISES.

Nothing as to the incapacity for practical use of the invention patented to Tilghman was derived from this source.

IL MEN OF SCIENCE.
1. Professor Vanderweyde (already described, supra, p. 315),
on examination in chief, stated that he had made experiments-Professor Doremus being present-for testing the
effects of water on fat at a high temperature and pressure.
They-were careful to follow the directions given in the specifications of Tilghman's patent, except that they did not use
the apparatus specified in it. The experiments were not for
the purpose of testing the apparatus described. The witness said:
"The first experiment was: Fat and water were placed in an
iron vessel, hermetically closed. This vessel was provided with
a few holes to place in the different substances mentioned in the
patent, by the melting of which the temperature was to be determined. The experiment was made by raising the temperature to the melting-point of lead; keeping at that temperature
for ten minutes, removing the vessel from the fire, cooling it in
water and opening it. The result was that the fat was changed
into a black substance, which possessed the well-known and
very characteristic strong smell of acrolaic acid. [Sample exhibited.] Dr. Doremus kept detailed notes. Chemically speaking, I would declare the sample a mixture of acrolaic, stearic,
margaric, and oleic acids with water. Heat was obtained from
charcoal.
"The second experiment was in all respects similar to the first,
except that the temperature was only carried up to the meltingpoint of tin. The result was that the fat was not so blacklooking as in the first instance; but the smell of the acrolaic
acid was not less offensive. [Sample of this result exhibited.]
This sample is the same as the former. There is a difference in
color, produced by the difference in temperature, almost 2000.

Oct. 1873.]

MITCHELL V.

TILGHMAN.

Statement of the case.-Praeticalness-Mitchell's side.
"Doubts were entertained by both Dr. Doremus and myself
if the experiments were fair, as, perhaps, sonic parts of the iron
vessel might be exposed to a temperature somewhere above the
melting-point of lead and tin*; therefore it was suggested by us
to procure a bath of melted lead and place the vessel it it, in
order to have an equal temperature throughout. This was
done. The same experiments were repeated, as in the first instance, with the vessel immersed in the melted lead, taking care
that the lead was not heated above its inelting-point; keeping
a hose ready to bring in a water-jet into the fire when supposed
necessary. In the first experiment in the bath the vessel was
full; in the second it was filled about two-thirds, as doubts were
expressed if the patent requires the vessel to be full or not. Of
the results I have the samples here. [Samples exhibited.] In
both instances the smell of the acrolaic acid was as strong as
the results of the first experiments.
"Q. What caused or produced the acrolein in these experiments?
"A. As the temperature of melted lead corresponds with the
boiling-point of fat, and as the boiling of fat is in fact a chemical decomposition of the base of the fat, the glycerin, into
acrolein or acrolaic acid, it was anticipated that exposing fat to
so high a temperature would have the effect of destroying the
glycerin, and to contaminate the fatty acids with so much ae(,olein as to make them comparatively worthless. The result fully
answered our expectations. Acrolein is produced in no other
way than by the decomposition or destruction of glycerin. In
the first two experiments there was a little agitation, as the
vessel was standing in the charcoal, and from time to time
moved up or down to regulate the heat; in the last two experiments there was considerable agitation, as the vessel was rolled
about in the melted lead in order to secure a uniform temperature.
"Q. Is the method described in said specification for produc.
ing fat-acids and glycerin, in your opinion, practical; and if
not, why?
"A. That specification bases the treatment of fats on two
principles: one, a special, very ingenious apparatus, about the
practicability of which I, however, am much in doubt. The
other, the action of water and heat combined on fat in a close
vessel. The objection, however, is, that the temperatures pre-

MITCHELL

v.

TILGHMAN.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.-Practicalness-Mitchell's side.
scribed in the specification are altogether too high, and that no
provision is made to keep the particles of fat and water in a
continually varying contact by means of circulation of some
kind.
"Q. Why is this contact and circulation necessary?
"A. It has been ascertained, first by Chevreul and later by
other chemists, that fats are composed of one base, glycerin,
and three or more acids, stearic, margaric, and olcic, and that
the action of water will be sufficient to separate those substances;
the water having a strong affinity for glycerin, has the power to
abstract this base from the fats; and Berthollot stated more
than ten years ago that water will rapidly, at 3600, or slowly at
ordinary temperature, resolve all fatty bodies into the acids and
glycerin. Circulation is only necessary to hasten the process."
Cross-examined.

"Q. What temperature, in your judgment, would be about as
low as it would be proper to use as a practical one for decomposing of fats in the arts for the manufacture of candles?
"A. When water alone is used under pressure, the most profitable temperature ranges from 3501 to 3900. When we are
below this, the time is too long. When we go beyond this, to
above 4000,4300, the melting-point of tin, 5000, the melting-point
of bismuth, and 6150, the melting-point of lead, as Mr. Tilghman
prescribes in his patent, we decompose the glycerin, entirely
destroy it, and contaminate the fatty acids with acrolein.
"Q. Prior to the experiment with what you call Mr. Tilghman's mode, state precisely what experiments you had tried to
enable you to express an opinion as to the temperature at which
fat will begin to decompose into acrolein.
"A. I have never tried any experiments expressly for the purpose to verify this temperature, but I have had plenty occasion,
during my labors in different laboratories, to observe this change
incidentally, and so has, I believe, every cook; but I was ahead
of the cook in making an estimate of the temperature, and
always adopting at about 6200, the boiling-point of fat, or the
melting-point of lead, and this view is fully confirmed by the
experiments stated.
"Q. Who took part in the experiments you have described,
Who was
to verify what you call Mr. Tilghman's process?
present, and where were they tried ?

Oct. 1873.]

MITCHELL

v.

TILGHMAN.

Statement of the case.-Practicalness-iitchell's side.
"A. Dr. Doremus, myself, Mr. Verdin, senior (Mr. Mitchell's
partner), and two or three men assisting to regulate the fires,
&e. The experiments were tried at Mr. Mitchell's factory.
"Q. Was no glycerin left undecomposed in your experiments
with what you call the Tilghman process?
"A. In some of the four experiments there was.
"Q. Why was it left undecomposed in some and not in others?
"A. I don't know.
"Q. Why did you not mention in your examination in chief
that you sometimes obtained glycerin?
"A. Because I made all my statements by memory. They
were quite long, and it is very natural to forget some particular
when the attention is not called to it by a direct question, as is
done now.
"Q. Did you ever see or try Mr. Tilghman's apparatus as
described in his patent?
"A. I like to see any one who saw it in successful operation.
I never saw it; and it is the impression generally entertained
by those who understand those matters, that it never has been,
nor never will be, except by some important modifications, or
rather change.
"Q. Name every person skilled in the art of treating fats
practically whom you know entertain and have expressed to
you this opinion.
"A. Among the practical men I know is, of course, at the
head of the list Mr. M1itchell, Mr. Verdin, anid Mr. Verdin, Jr.,
and all the intelligent employ6s in their fictory. With other
practical men I had not occasion to converse on the subject; but
no scientific man will doubt that they are right.
"Q. Why do you yourself pronounce Mr. Tilghman's apparatus impracticable?
"A. In the first place, because it does not provide for a circulation sufficient to bring the particles of oil and water in a continually varying contact. In Mr. Tilghman's apparatus the lti
is only pushed forward with the water by means of a piston,
through a long tube coiled up, escaping at one end in propoitioli
as it is pressed in at the other extremity. The first extremity
is closed by a safety-valve charged to stand a pressure of not
less than 130 to 150 atmospheres. Now, it is doubtful that if
this safety-valve is once opened by the pressure of the forcepump, if not by the expansion of the steam necessarily formed

MITCHELL V.

TILGHMAN.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.-Practicalness-Mitchell's side.
when some exit presents itself, a great deal more of the contents will escape than is forced in at the other end. This is a
view which I cannot help entertaining till seeing it to be erroneous by the practical operation of said apparatus, always supposing the apparatus to be constructed exactly as the patent
describes it.
"Q. If fat or water are kept in a perfect state of mechanical
mixture while exposed to heat, is any other circulation needed
to decompose the fat ?
"A. You cannot possibly keep fat and water in a mechanical
mixture when at rest or simply pushed forward, as is the case
in Mr. Tilghman's apparatus. To keep them in a mechanical
mixture you have continually either to bring the water from
below over the fat above, as is done by the circulation process,
or may be done with some pump, or the mixture may be stirred
with some kind of wheel, otherwise fat and water will follow
the laws of their respective specific gravities; the water below,
the fat above.
"Q. Question repeated.
"A. Mechanical mixture alone will, of course, promote the
action; but when this is combined with a continual motion and
intermingling of the two substances, the action will be greatly
improved: and in so far circulation may be considered necessary."
2. Professor Ogden .Doremus, resident in New York, who
began the study of chemistry with Dr. Draper, in the city
just named; who had been Professor of Chemistry in the
Brooklyn Medical College, in the New York Medical College, in the College of Pharmacy, New York, and was now
(1864) professor of the same science in the Bellevue Medical
C0Ulege and the Free Academy in the same city.
"I assisted, in February, 1864, with Professor Vanderweyde,
in performing experiments after the method described in the
specification to Tilghman's patent of 1854."
[The witness then described at length the apparatus and
the experiments.]
"The fatty acids produced were not in a pure state. Acrofein was produced at each operation. It was produced by the

Oct. 1873.]

MITCHELL

v.

TILGHMAN.

Statement of the case.-Practicalness-Mitchell's side.
high temperature to which the tallow was heated in the presence
of water. The temperature, however, was not higher than that
indicated in Mr. Tilghman's specification as proper."
Cross-examined.

"Q. What do you know about the condition of that apparatus
at the time you tried that experiment, and of its previous use?
"A. I know not what use it had been put to prior to the experiment, but believed it to be in a fitting condition for an honest
investigation of the subject.
"Q. Who put the fat into it ?
"A. The tallow and water were weighed out by Mr. Verdin,
in the presence of Professor Vanderweyde and myself; they
were poured into the apparatus by a workman from the story
above, Dr. Vanderweyde accompanying him, the other remaining below.
"Q. Were any means tried in your presence to satisfy you
whether any remains of fat-acids might be adhering to the interior of the vessel in the last operation in it?
"A. The vessel was simply washed out; I felt satisfied that
the vessel was clean; my impression is, it was hot water, but I
am not certain.
" Q. Did you test any of the results of that experiment as to
the proportion of the fat-acids obtained to the whole mass?
"A. I did not; I made a rough approximation of an analysis,
and should judge there was at least five per cent. of acid."
3. The Parisjury qf savants, already rfentioned,* at the
BExposition of 1855, after stating that Tilghrnan was the first
who had the idea of undertaking, on a large scale, the
saponification of fatty bodies by water, and after describing
the coil apparatus recormended by him, say:
"Visiting the manufactory of Messrs. Monier & Co., at Villette, near Paris, we had an opportunity of seeing the trial of
the continuous process in its application to palm oil.
"We are sorry to say that the fatty matter on coming out of
the apparatus was not at all deodorized, and, more besides than
that, that it gave out a strong odor of acrolein. From the point
* Supra, p. 307.

336

MITCHELL

v. TILGHMAN.

fSup. Ct.

Statement of the case.-Practicalness-Mitchell's side.
of view of the quality of the products, this arrangement of apparatus, then, by no means realized the end which the author
has proposed. Moreover, in our opinion, the chances of deterioration of a system of apparatus of any kind which works constantly at a temperature capable of exerting a pressure of ninety
to one hundred atmospheres are such that it is hardly possible
that industry will utilize it, even if the products which it furnishes were irreproachable."
4. The jury of the London InternationalExhibition, a] ready
mentioned* as having given Tilghman the credit of saponification by water, and declared that De Milly had only much
improved it, added that they doubted whether the two niethods, "under any modifications up to that time attempted,
successfully compete with the sulphuric saponification."
III. MANUFACTURERS

OF CANDLES.

1. Nathaniel -Ropes, resident in Cincinnati, Ohio; a manufacturer of star candles, sometimes called adamantine candles, and of lard oil, a witness of the defendant.

"Q. Describe the old process used in your factory by which
you obtained the fatty acids and glycerin, and describe the process now used there.
"A. We formerly worked in an open tub with about thirteen
per cent. of lime and about twice that quantity of sulphuric acid;
we now operate in close tanks, copper tanks, and use about a
half per cent. of lime and about twice that quantity of sulphuric
acid, and have operated under a pressure of about 150 lbs. or
160 lbs. to the square inch. But I feel satisfied in my own
mind that lime could be dispensed with altogether under a
higher pressure, probably 180 lbs. to 200 lbs., and the same resuilt accomplished in about the same time-say six or seven
hours; whereas under a pressure of only 150 lbs. it would take
from twelve to twenty hours to accomplish a like result, depending upon the quantity of water and the quality of stock
used. We have taken twenty hours; but, with a better quality
of stock and nearly double the quantity of water, we have accomplished the result in about twelve hours; under a higher
Supra, p. 318.

Oct. 1873.]

MITCHELL v. TILGHMAN.

Statement of the case.-Praetiealness- -Mitchell's side.
pressure the time would be very much shortened. In the twelvehour operation, with 2000 lbs. of prime stearin, and the same
quantity of water introduced, 1000 lbs. each time, a beautiful
result was produced. The separation was perfect, and the stock
well crystallized. We have continued on since using a half per
cent. of lime, as we prefer doing this to adding a greater pressure
than 150 lbs. or 160 lbs. to our works, as we incur less risk from
explosion. We have not repeated the operation since then
without any lime, not because we don't think them practicable,
for I fully believe that under pressure-say of 200 Ibs. to the
square inch, which would give something like 4000 Fahrenheit,
I should suppose-as good a result could be obtained in as short
a time as with a halfa pound of lime under a pressure of only
150 Ibs. to the square inch. This last is, as I say, a matter of
opinion, without having tested it.
"Q. Describe your works; also describe the mode of their
operation when you first began; under whose superintendence;
what changes you made in its operations by experimenting
therewith, and how long you experimented therewith before
finally adopting your present mode of operation.
"A. We generate steam in an iron boiler, about thirty feet in
length and forty inches diameter. Another boiler is connected
with our copper tanks by means of iron steam-pipes, with stopcocks attached, for letting off or on the steam from the firstnamed boiler; steam is made to operate on the crank inside,
that revolves by means of a pulley. The steam agitates the
stock inside of these boilers. When sufficiently cooked it is
forced off through pipes to an open tub on the second floor.
The tank was first brought on in January, 1860; it was introduced under the superintendence of Mr. B. C. Tilghman, brother
of the patentee; he operated or experimented for several
months; he had never had an opportunity of operating with
lard stearin; he was willing, if I would find the stock, to operate without any compensation, and we did so operate for several months; after that, as long as I continued to operate, I
was to pay him, and am still to pay him twenty cents a hundred. Mr. Tilghman desired the place and the opportunity
where he could exhibit this operation to other manufacturers,
and he proposed, if I was not satisfied with the operation and
the working of the apparatus, to take it away without expense to me; but I was so well satisfied with it that I purchased
22
VOL. x1x.

M ITCHELL v. TILGHMAN.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.-Praeticalness-MitchelI's side.
of him the tank and its connections probably five or six months
after its first introduction-in August, 1860. I have made no
particular changes since that time, with the exception of introducing this other tank, and from that time forward we have
continued to operate in this and no other way.
"Q. State when you first introduced lime, and the quantity.
"A. We introduced it from the start; a'half per cent.
"Q. Describe the construction and the operation of the mixer
or stirrer, and whether or not the mixer is essential, in mixing
together the ingredients in your decomposing tanks, to the decomposition of the fats.
"A. The shaft is constructed with wings, or more properly
arms, through its whole length, so that when it revolves it keeps
the whole of the stock in agitation. To show the importance
of this, the arms upon my shaft on the new tank are not sufficiently extended, and the stock would collect at one end of it,
and we would have to take off the main head and clear it out.
I am now extending the shaft in my new boiler to its full extent, so that the stock may be well agitated throughout the full
extent of the boiler. We have had no trouble with the small
boiler, which was constructed under Mr. Tilghman's directions.
This fault that I speak of was only with my new tank. Under
this mode of operation, which I have adopted, the mixer or
stirrer is essential to the decomposition of the fat. At the same
time other apparatus might possibly be constructed in which
the mixer or stirrer might be dispensed with.
"Q. In the boiler furnished by Mr. Tilghman, or in your own
tanks, state whether or not you have ever produced free fatty
acids or glycerin without the use of the stirrer or agitator just
described.
"A. No, sir, we never have. We have never tested it without
the use of the stirrer. We never have attempted it.
"Q. State whether or not, after your process is completed,
the glycerin-water contains free fatty acids; if yea, how are the
free fat-acids separated from the glycerin-water?
"A. I don't think there is any free fat-acids connected with
the glycerin-water. They are separated by the process.
-IQ. State whether or not water is used in the old process as
well as in the new.
"A. It could not be used to the same advantage as under the
naw. If I uzderstand Mr. Tilghman's process, it is to produce

Oct. 1873.]

MITCHELL V.

TILGHMAN.

Statement of the case.-Praticalness-Mitchell's side.
a free fat-acid with one operation, under pressure, either with
or without lime; but if so much lime is used as to produce a
lime-soap, it goes without his process, right or wrong. Ofcourse
water is used in the old process, but in diminished quantities.
We dilute our sulphuric acid with water, and a sufficiency is
used, of course, to boil up the lime-soap.
"Q. In the practical operation of your process, as introduced
by Mr. Tilghman, state whether or not you use any other agents
than those employed formerly in the old process.
"A. No, sir; none other. No other agents, and these (with
the exception of water, which we use largely) in very small
quantities.
"Q. State where, if at any place within your personal knowledge, soap or candles are manufhctured from free fat-acids produced by the u!:e of water alone, at a high temperature and
pressure, without the use of any alkali.
"A. I can't say that I know of any place. I don't know about
other establishments, of my own personal knowledge.
"Q. State where, if at any place, the manufacture of free fatacids by water alone, at a high temperature and pressure, has
been tried under the direction of R. H. Tilghman, or B. 0. Tilghman, and desisted or discontinued in whole or in part, and afterward some alkali used in the process.
"A. I don't know of any place where it has been tried and
been discontinued ; that is, voluntarily discontinued.
"Q. State whether or not, in your own factory, in the two
operations you have mentioned, of twelve and twenty hours respectively, such was the case.
"A. No, sir; we did not. We never, in our factory, adopted
the use of water alone, except with a view of testing the practicability of it. We preferred, in our factory, to use a half per
cent. of lime, with a pressure of 150 lbs. to the square inch,
rather than to subject our works to the higher pressure which
would be necessary to produce the result without lime. It is
only with reference to safety that we have not discontinued the
use of lime altogether, and subjected our works, boiler and tanks,
to a higher pressure.
"Q. State whether or not any one in your factory has ever
mixed a fatty body with from a third to a half of its bulk of
water, and placed the mixture in any convenient vessel in which
it can be heated to the melting-point of lead, until the operation

340

MITCHELL v. TILGHMAN.

[Sup. ot

Statement of the case.-Practicalness-MitchelI's side.
was completed, the products being free fat-acids and a solution
of glycerin.
"A. No, sir."
Cross-examined.

"Q. State as nearly as you can, how many pounds of stock
you have worked into good stearic acid with the Tilghman process, and without the use of any lime.
"A. About 8000 lbs. altogether. About 6000 lbs. successfully;
a very good result from 8000 lbs.
"Q. Are you or not satisfied that the Tilghman process, without the aid of any lime, is a practical process?
"A. I think it is, sir.
"Q. Could you bave continued to work that process without
any lime regularly and daily?
'.A. I think so, sir; yes, I think so.
'Q. Was not this 6000 lbs. of stearic acid made into merchantable candles? What was their character?
"A. They were made into candles; they were first-rate candles-no better; they were unexceptionable. All were made
into candles, with the exception of about 150 lbs., which quantity of the stearie acid was retained for Mr. Tilghman, and a
portion of it to be retained at home as a sample of what could
be accomplished without the use of lime.
"Q. Can you produce a specimen of that stearic acid ?
"A. I have a specimen here. [Marked by the commissioner.]
"Q. How many pounds of stock have you worked with the
apparatus and process of Tilghman since you first commenced ?
"A. I took it off from my books last night, as you requested.
From February 1st, 1860, to April 1st, 1863, 1,127,000 lbs. under
that process.
"Q. How many pounds of lime and how many of sulphuric
acid did you save by the Tilghman process on each 100 lbs. of
stock worked by you, as compared with the old process used
prior to the introduction of Mr. Tilghman's process ?
"A. Well, we saved about twelve and a half pounds of lime
and twenty-five pounds of sulphuric acid on the hundred pounds
of stock.
"Q. In your opinion, is it or not owing to the decomposing
power of highly heated water under pressure that this saving
is due?

Oct. 1873.]

MITCHELL v. TILGIMAN.

Statement of the case.-Practicalness-Mitchell's side.
"A. Yes, sir; I think so.
"Q. Have you paid Mr. Tilghman twenty cents on every 100
lbs. of fat you have worked since April, 1860? Do you continue to pay him that amount?
"A. I have paid him since August 1st, 1860, twenty cents on
every 100 lbs. I think it was from August 1st, 1860, that I contracted to pay him. I have not paid him all, but I am ready to
pay him the balance when called on. The -arrangement still
continues."
2. .Nathaniel .opes, Jr., a witness of the defendant, was also
examined, and confirmed, so far as he was examined on the
same topics, the testimony of N. Ropes, his father. He
stated among other things that in using Tilghman's process the firm generally employed one-half per cent. of lime;
that a saving of lime and acid was effected by this process,
as compared with the old process used prior to the introduction of Tilghman's process, of ten and a half to twelve and a
half pounds of lime to a hundred pounds of fat; twice that
quantity of vitriol; and that this saving was due to the
chemical action of highly heated water under pressure on
the fat; and that this chemical agent of highly heated water,
under pressure, was not, so far as the witness knew, used
prior to the introduction of Tilghman's process.
8. Florece Verdin, a partner of the defendant, already
described, manufacturer of stearic acid and candles:
"I have tried several experiments in which I followed the
specification of Tilghman's patent. There was very little glycerin and it was very poor. The acrolein had injured it so much
that it would not have been salable. The fatty acids also were
very poor; affected by the acrolein. Candles made from these
fatty acids might be freed from the smell of the acrolein with
additional expense. The value of the fatty acids as they come
out of the vessel would be impaired in value at least one cent
per pound.
"The process described in the specification would not in my
opinion be of any value to a manufacturer of candles or of stearic
acid. The use of the apparatus, as there described, would not
be safe to the operatives in charge of it. There, would be danger
of explosion from the heat and pressure specified. I thinkI

MITCIIELL

v.

TILGHMAN.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.-Practicaluess-Mitchell's side.
should make my will before I would operate with them. With
the heat and pressure mentioned in the specification, the valves
therein mentioned will not keep tight. The process described
in that specification is not anywhere adopted that I know of."
Cross-examined.

"Q. What beat are said valves exposed to in the apparatus
described in complainant's patent?
"A. The melting-point of lead.
"Q. Examine the drawing now shown you of the complainant's patent, and state what valves in said apparatus are exposed to any heat above 2120.
"A. There are none. I was mistaken. I had seen the drawing before, but was under the impression that the valves were
nearer to the boiler."
Re-examined.
"Q. From your present knowledge of the position of the
valves in the complainant's drawing and the mode of operation,
is or is not the complainant's apparatus a practical mode of
accomplishing his object?
"A. I think not."
4. C. E. Grant, resident in Philadelphia, of the firm of
C. I. Grant & Co., manufacturers of adamantine candles, a
witness of the defendant, testified, in substance, among other
things, thus:
"We now use the distillation process, with the use of sulphuric
acid. From the fall of 1859 to nearly the beginning of 1862, we
used the Tilghman process, under a license from him, but not
continuously. Our interests are in his favor. We did not employ the coil apparatus, but a cylindrical digester with spherical
ends, procured from Mr. Tilghman. We used it in connection
with high pressure; 160 lbs. to the square inch. We used the
process a portion of the time without lime. The fat during its
treatment was agitated by paddles on a shaft running through
the digesters, from end to end. We voluntarily abandoned the
use of the Tilghman process, because we found it was costing
us too much. The process was unprofitable; that is to say, the
profits were not equal to what they would have been by the
sulphuric acid process. Mr. Tilghman was at our manufactory
frequently, and suggested all the modes of treatment. We ex.

Oct. 1873.]

MITCHELL

v. TILGnMAN.

Statement of the case.-Practicalness-Mitchell's side.

pected, as well as I can recollect, to produce decomposition by
water alone in about six hours; but I think we were about twice
that time. Except, possibly, by double hot pressure, which we
never tried, we could not by the use of water with heat and
pressure alone produce such a decomposition as would make
merchantable candles. It is my opinion that a person of ordinary skill in the branch of manufacture to which this patent
relates, with the patent as his guide, and without experiment,
could not decompose fat by water, heat, and pressure so as to
produce a valuable result."
Cross-examined.
"There was a difference of opinion between myself and my
partner as to the policy of abandoning Tilghman's process. I
always advocated the process, and was unwilling to abandon it
so long as there was the least hope of success. Since we abandoned the process, it has not been generally abandoned by other
manufacturers. I know of no manufacturers in the United
States who are now working by the old lime-saponification process, though there may be some. I cannot name any manufacturer in the United States, besides ourselves, who has abandoned
the use of Tilghman's process after having once adopted it. I
do at this moment believe that fat can be decomposed by the
action of water, at a high temperature and pressure, into fatacids and solution of glycerin. I believe that the intimate
mixture of the fat with the water is an important circumstance
in producing this decomposition. I believe that, the higher
the temperature and pressure employed, the more quickly the
decomposition will be produced. I believe that the pressure
should be made to correspond with the temperature employed,
so as to prevent the water escaping as steam. Except agitation, which is of use only to produce mixture of the fat and
water, I do not believe that any conditions besides intimate mixture of fat and water, a high temperature, and a pressure sufficient to prevent the water from escaping as steam, are necessary
to produce the decomposition of fat into fat-acid and glycerin.
Which of these three conditions we were unable to produce in
the apparatus we used, I don't know. If we had used twice as
much water, or continued the operation twice as long, or taken
a second charge of water, I believe that we would have made
better decomposition."

MITCHELL

v.

TILGHMAN.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.-Practicalness-Iitchell's side.

5. Mr. E. S. Wayne, manufacturer of candles in Cincinnati,
a witness of the defendant, testified that Tilghman's process
with the coil apparatus was practical but not economical.
6. Soon after the issue of his patent, Tilghman began to
modify the apparatus described in his specification. Of this
it did not appear that he made any secret. One of his letters to 'Messrs. Thomas Emry & Son, manufacturers of candles in Cincinnati, produced by the defendant, was thus:
"LO1NDON, June 25th, 1856.

"GENTLEMEN : I have received from Mr. Davenport your favor
of 30th May last. Our experiments in the factories here and in
Paris have shown that, on the large scale, the decomposition of
fats by water is more conveniently effected by modifying the
apparatus originally proposed, so that the fat and water are
exposed to a comparatively lower heat and pressure for a longer
time, instead of a very high pressure for a few minutes; and a
considerable quantity of material is treated at one charge, in an
ordinary steam boiler, lined with lead or copper, and provided
with an agitator,in place of using the continuously working
pumps and coil of pipes. At a pressure of 225 lbs. per inch,
tallow, or palm-oil, or lard stearin is completely decomposed in
five hours. In the course of a few months wo shall probably
have going on at Price & Co.'s works an apparatus on the above
plan capable of treating several tons per day. Until my process
is in actual use in England I have decided not to begin its introduction into the United States, and therefore cannot at present reply to your request as to terms of sale. As soon as it is
well established here I intend returning home, and will immediately communicate with you ...
"I remain, very respectfully yours,
11R. A. TILGHMAN."
7. Mr. G. F. Wilson, already mentioned as the managing
agent of Price & Co.'s candle works in London (which company, as has been mentioned, paid to Tilghman 1000 sterling a year), and whose statement in a public lecture delivered by him in January, 1856, that Tilghman's discovery,
as carried out by his coil process, would draw from all the
admission that it was a beautiful, original chemical idea,

Oct. 1873 ]

MITCHELL V. TILGIIMAN.

Statement of the case.-Practicalness-Mitchell's side.

well carried out; in that same lecture, and in immediate
sequence to this statement, added:
"It has yet to be proved how far it can compete successfully
with distillation."
Adding further:
"We have made an arrangement with Mr. Tilghman which
will give us the means of testing its commercial merits."
Mr. Wilson, in a public lecture delivered previously (of
September, 1855), after referring to the fact that until of late
times no practical modes of obtaining glycerin other than in
an impure state had existed, said:
"A new process for decomposing neutral fats by water under
great pressure coming under our notice, led us to look again more
closely into our old distilling processes, and the doing this
showed, what we had often been on the brink of discovering,
that glycerin might be distilled.
"In our new process the only chemical agents employed for
decomposing the neutral fat, and separating its glycerin, are
steam and heat; and the only agents used in purifying the glycerin thus obtained are heat and steam; thus all trouble from
earthy salts or lead is escaped. Distillation, however, purifies
the impure glycerin of the old sources."
8. M1r. Tilghman, who was examined as a witness, and who
stated the fact of the agreement to pay hin 1000 sterling a
year, stated further that though he had been in some of the
factories of Price & Co., he had not been in all, nor had he
been in all the parts of all the factories which he did visit;
and being requested to speak "of his personal knowledge"
of what processes, &c., Price & Co. used, stated that he had
no personal knowledge whatever as to what process they
employed for decomposing fats, what form of apparatus was
used by them, or what degree of heat.
9. Monsieur Monier, whose stearinerie had now apparently
failed or otherwise come to an end, thus testified:
"We made numerous experiments immediately after signing
the contract. Mr.R. A. Tilghman was present and worked with

346

MITCHELL V. TILGHMAN.

[Sup. Ot

Statement of the case.-Practicalness-Mitchell's side.

his brother during ten or fifteen days. Mr. R. A. Tilghman, on
leaving the factory, left his brother to represent him with my
firm, and to continue and direct alone the experiments described
in the patents. The results of these first experiments, as well as
of those which followed, were entirely useless and productive of
no good. They took place in our factory at Yillettc, near Paris,

by means of a little apparatus brought from London by Mr.
Tilghman. [Described by the witness, and obviously the coil
apparatus.] It was placed in a furnace of fireproof brick and
received all the heat of the furnace, the flame of which completely enveloped it, and which brought it to an excessive heat,
of which it was impossible to ascertain the degree of intensity,
as there was no instrument which would indicate the degree of
heat. A suction and force-pump was firmly established and
fixed at some distance from the apparatus. This pump was
worked by hand, and being connected with oue end of the coil
in the cast-iron block, threw into the said coil a mixture of water
and fatty matter contained in a vessel from which it drew it,
and forced it to traverse all the turns of the coil, and forced it
out of the other end of the said coil incased in the block of iron,
which was, as I have already said, heated to an excessive degree.
Although the mixture of water and fatty matter was, during its
passage in the coil, subjected to a temperature which I estimate
to have been above five hundred degrees (5000) and a pressure
of more than twenty atmospheres, the decomposition of the
fatty matter was never complete, and never produced fat-acids
and glycerin, but only an altered fatty matter, which, when
washed, produced acrolein to such a point as to fatigue the
workmen who assisted at the experiments. The experiments,
in conformity to the indications of Mr. Tilghman, possessor of
the patent for making fat-acids and glycerin, lasted about six
months. The first fifteen experiments were made by the
Messrs. Tilghman, aided by two workmen, in my presence, and
they alone directed the work; and after the departure of Mr.
R. A. Tilghman, the patentee, they were hll directed by his
brother. None of the numerous experiments succeeded. After
the failures with the little apparatus brought from London by
Mr. Tilghman, his brother caused to be constructed successively
three apparatus, The first was composed of a hollow iron tube,
and was made by Perkins, in London, and put in a bath of
melted lead, in order to always have at least three hundred de-

Oct. 1873.1

MITCIELL

v.

TILGHMAN.

Statement of the ease.-Practicalness-Mitchell 's side.

grees of heat. The second, which was also composed of a hollow
iron pipe, was constructed in Paris, and put in a bath of melted
zinc, in order to always have at least five hundred degrees of
heat. The third, and last, was constructed with the Perkins
pipe, divided into three equal parts, of which each part was
placed in a block of cast-iron, by Davidson, iron founder at La
Villette, and under the superintendence of Mr. Tilghman's
brother. This last apparatus was placed in a furnace of fireproof brick, constructed upon the plan of A r. Tilghman's brother
and under his direction, and at a temperature the elevation of
which I never determined, but which certainly much surpassed
that of melted zinc. It is easy to see that Messrs. Tilghman
paid no attention to the process patented, but made at our factory and at our expense, not serious experiments, but trials to
find the means of overcoming the difficulties which arrested
them. This is shown by the fact that all which Mr. Tilghman
demanded was instantly given him, and that he often used two
kilogrammes of fatty matter in one day, and always without
any results. I have no plans or drawings of the apparatus which
Mr. Tilghman had made. The experiments made at our factory
by Messrs. Tilghman cost the firm of Monier & Co. more than
forty thousand francs, counting the money given to the brother,
which was, I think, between 12,000 and 15,000 francs. The
contract made.between Mr. Tilghman and our firm was annulled by common consent, because the process never produced
fat-acids and glycerin. I affirm that it is impossible to decompose fatty matter and obtain fat-acids and glycerin by the
method indicated in Mr. Tilghman's patent.
"Some time after the first experiments were discontinued and
the first contract annulled with Mr. Tilghman, Mr.De Fontaine
Moreau, in whom we had great confidence, announced to us the
return to Europe of Mr. Tilghman with a new process, based
upon the principles of the method already patented, and urged
us earnestly and decided the firm, much to my regret, I assure
you, to join the firm of Charles Leroy & Durand, candle manufacturers at Paris, to whom he had already spoken, for the trial
of the now process, the success of which he said was certain, as
Mr. Tilghman had already obtained admirable results in the
United States. A new contract was made between Mr.Tilgh.
man and my firm, representing also Messrs. Charles Leroy &
Durand, upon the same basis as the first, Mr. De Fontaine Mo.

MITCHELL

V.

TILGIE IA[ .

t
[Sup. Ct..-

Statement of the case.-Practicalness-Tilghman's rebuttal.
reau again representing Mr. Tilghman, the patentee. New experiments were made at La Villette by Mr. Tilghman's brother
during two or three months, and, like the first, produced neither
fat-acids nor glycerin.
"In my opinion, a mixture of fatty bodies and water, exposed
in a close vessel at a high temperature, and under a strong pressure, cannot decompose the fatty bodies to the point of producing fat-acids and glycerin."
10. Mitchell offered to show to the complainant operations with

an apparatus alleged by Mitchell to have been made in accordance with the specification in the complainant's patent.
Which offer, for certain reasons stated, the complainant declined. [The history of this matter appears supra, pp. 327-

329.]
REDUCTION TO PRACTICAL USE.
REBUTTAL BY TIE COMPLAINANT.

1. To rebut the testimony of Monier given in 1867, Tilghman proved that suspecting that a certain De Milly, a large
mauuthcturer of candles in France, was using his patent, he
had requested his agent, Mr. Fontaine Moreau, to inquire
how this was; that Mr. Fontaine Moreau had inquired of
Monier, and that Monier had thus answered him:
"SOCILTL G9IXNRALE DE STEARINERIE,
"1LA VILLETTE (near Paris), July 17th, 1857.

"MY DEAR FRIEND: I received your letter of yesterday. Not
only does De Milly work by the Tilghman process, but also he
has sold to many candle manufacturers, amongst others to MM.
Petit & Lemoult, the right to work his patent in France, in
their factory at Grenelle. Mr. De Milly has also sold in Belgium
and in Austria, so that while the Messrs. Tilghman are in London and suspect nothing, Mr. De Milly reaps a harvest in selling
that which he has stolen from them. But what can any one
here say of all this so long as the Messrs. Tilghman are content
to suffer themselves to be robbed? You know De Milly. He
does not lose his time. So he is more and more eager to offer
his processes. He has offered them to us many times. If the
Messrs. Tilghman wish to draw any profit from their patent,
they ought to prosecute him for infringement as soon as possi.

Oct. 1873.]

MITCHELL V. TILGHMAN.

Statement of the case.-Practicalness-Tilghman's rebuttal.

ble. Let them think of it seriously. I am too much intereEted
in the question to admit of my giving them advice which might
perhaps be misinterpreted. I must be content with wishing
that Mr. Tilgh man should have the courage to defend his intellectual property, that is to say, his honor.
"Your very devoted,
M ONYeR."

2. In regard to Tilghman's inability, when requeated by
the defendant's counsel, cross-examining him as a witness,
to state on his "personal knowledge" what pr6cesses, forms
of apparatus, and what degrees of heat were used at Price
& Co.'s factory, it appeared by the testimony of the defendant, Mitchell, that he, Mitchell, before July, 1865, which
was before this suit arose, had asked Tilghman why he had
not personally inspected their mode of working, and why
he did not know how they worked.
"He stated in reply that Mr. Wilson, who was the managing
director of that company, was trying to invent a process of his
own, and would not allow him to inspect it."
3. One of the defences set up in the answer, it will be remembered, was, that the apparatus described by Tilghman
as the one which he believed was the best to carry hi.s invention into effect was dangerous, from the degree of heat
required. On that point this testimony was given:
Joseph .Vasop, mechanical engineer and constructor of
steam apparatus for warming buildings, for heating evapo
rators, &c.
"I have had two years' experience as an assistant to Mr. Perkins, during which I have applied the apparatus to many purposes requiring very high pressures and temperatures, among
which I will mention the generators of steam for Perkins's steamgun, heating-ovens for baking bread, and for heating various
processes requiring temperatures as high as 6000 Fahrenheit and
upwards. I cannot state precisely the maximum of tenperature at which such an apparatus could be used without injurious
or dangerous results, but I can say positively not less than 6500
or 7000. I have known the apparatus, working at the temperature of 6000 and upwards, to be in daily use for many years

M'IITCIIFLL v. TILGIMMAN.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.-Practicalness-Evidence claimed by both sides.
without injurious or dangerous results, without inconvenience,
and without any considerable depreciation. With ordinary care
I should consider an apparatus, constructed in accordance with
the descriptions and drawing of the coil apparatus in the patent
of Tilghman, a perfectly safe practical apparatus for heating the
materials to a lead-melting heat. I do not see that any practical difficulty would be incurred in its operation. So long as the
temperature be limited to the melting-point of lead, an apparatus
as strongly constructed as those with which I have been familiar,
would be almost absolutely secure against explosion. I should
consider such an apparatus used at lead-melting heat much safer
than an ordinary form of steam-boiler at a pressure, say of 180
lbs."
REDUCTION TO PRACTICAL USE.
EVIDENCE CLAIMED BY BOTH PARTIES

In addition to the evidence which has been grouped, as
on the preceding pages,* as tending apparently to sustain
either the complainant's case or the defendant's, there was
some evidence which perhaps it was not quite easy to say,
until the construction of the patent was settled, which side
it sustained. It was claimed by each side. Such was,
1. A statement by Mr. Vilson, already -more than once mentioned. In the public lecture referred to on page 813, as
given in January, 1856, he said:
"I went with my chemi.st-assistant,Mr. Payne, to see Mr. Tilghman's little apparatusat work, and in the course of some experiments
which it led us to try, or ratherto try over again, it struck me that
steam passed into the fat at a high temperature should effect by
a gentle process what Mr. Tilghnman aimed at effecting by a violent process,-the resolving of the neutral fat into glycerin and
fat-acids. We proved that this was so, and that the glycerin
distilled over in company with the fat-acids, but no longer corn
bined with them.
"In July, 1854, we took out a patent for this process, by which
many hundred tons of palm oil and other fats have now been
worked, and which has given to the arts and medicine a body
never before known, either in France or here, even in the chem* From p. 306 to p. 350.

Oct. 1873.]

MITCHELL V.

TILGHMAN.

Statement of the case.--Practicalness-Evidence claimed by both sides.
ist's laboratory,-glycerin which had passed over in the form
of vapor without a trace of decomposition."
2. In July, 1857, Tilghman introduced into Price's candle
factory in London, an ordinary long boiler wiih a rcvotgnq
stirrer, working at a temperature of about 4000 Fahr. (225
pounds pressure), and having a capacity of treating two and
a half tons of fat daily. This appeared by a letter of his
own, given in evidence, like the one just above by the defendant.
"LOWDON,

July 20th, 1857.

"To M. DE FONTAINE MOREAU.
'"DEAR SIR: In compliance with your request, I proceed to
describe the present state of the apparatus for decomposing fats,
as it is now being worked at Messrs. Price & Co.'s.
"As I have before mentioned to you, it consists of a boiler
thirty-two inches diameter, and thirty feet long, made of iron
nine-sixteenths thick, and lined with copper.
"It is heated by an interior copper serpentine, 'a retourd'eau,'
which is supplied with steam from a smaller tubular boiler
(thirty-two inches diameter by ten feet long, with eighteen flues,
three inches diameter). It also has a tube pierced with holes to
inject free steam. The apparatus is worked at a pressure of
from 200 lbs. to 225 lbs. per square inch (fourteen to fifteen atmospheres); it is charged with two and a half tons palm oil and
three-quarter tons water, and the oil is perfectly decomposed in
four and a half hours after the above pressure is attained. The
decomposition would be effected in shortertime if a largerproportion
of water was employed, and if agitationand mixture of the materials
was produced by the injection of free steam from the pierced tube, but
as one object is to get the glycerin in a strong state (the demand for glycerin being just now greater than they can supply),
they prefer for the present to work it as described.
"Price & Co. are now thinking of putting up another apparatus, which will probably be constructed to work at a pressure
considerably higher than abovementioncd, so as to shorten the
time of decomposition, and also will be made to work continuously,
so as to avoid loss of time in filling and emptying.
"Very truly yours,
"1R. A. TILGHMAN."

[Sup. Ct.

MITCHELL v. TILGHMAN.

Statement of the case.-Practicalness--Evidenee claimed by both sides.

This apparatus continued at work at Price's factory down
as late as 1865, as appeared by a letter of Tilghman ad
mitted in evidence.
"PRICE'S PATENT CANDLE COMPANY,

" LowDoN, July 13th, 1865.
R. A. TILGHMAN, ESQ.,
"Philadelphia.
"DEAR SIR: I thank you for your letter of 19th of June, which
I have laid before the directors to-day, and they will be much
obliged if you will, as you kindly offer, procure for us tracings
of the working drawings of the apparatus now in use for your
process in America, and most approved of by you.
"You are right in supposing that the apparatus we have now
at Battersea is just whot you saw or heard about when you were
here. There is a stirrer in each vessel, but plainly insufficient
for the proper contact of the water with the fatty body. I
should think, we may very probably use our present digesters
for the outer iron vessels of your apparatus, putting them, of
course, upon their ends. They are very much the shape of the
vessels you describe. You do not mention what quantity of
water you put to the fat. I should think it might be well to
put it in at two doses, drawing off the first where it has taken
up the bulk of the glycerin, and then finishing off with fresh
water, to take the last part of it away, using this water again
as the first water for a fresh charge of fat; but very likely you
already do this. The whole of your letter now -being replied
to, as well as of the previous one, was of much interest to us.
If any further matters occur to you as worth mentioning in
connection with the working of the process on your side, we
shall be much obliged by your stating them when you write
again.
"I am, dear sir, yours,
faithfully,

"J. P

WILSON."

On the 15th of May, 1860, Tilghman took out another
patent. The specification and claims in that patent were
thus:

"Be it known that I, Richard Albert Tilghman, of Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, have invented a certain new and improved
method of decomposing fatty and oily substances, and I do
hereby declare that the following is a fall and exact description
thereof:

Oct. 1873.]

MITCHELL V. TILGHMAN.

Statement of the case.-Practicalness-Evidence claimed by both sides.

"11Myinvention relatesto the process of obtaining free fat-acids
and solution of glycerin from fatty substances by the action of
water at high temperatures and pressures, and it is applicable
either when water alone is used, or when, in addition to the
water, a portion of alkali is used to aid the chemical action.
"I have observed, in working this process, that though the
action of the water in extracting the glycerin from the fat is
rapid at first when the water is fresh and the fat contains all its
glycerin, yet as the decomposition advances, and the fat gradually loses, and the water takes up the glycerin, that the decomposition becomes slower and slower, so that to extract the last
portion of glycerin from the fat with a moderate quantity of
water requires a considerable time when the lower range of
pressures are used.
"Now if we use a large proportion of water to a given quantity of fat, the decomposition may be made sufficiently complete
in a moderate time; but this has the inconvenience of occupying a considerable portion of the vessel or apparatus used, and
thereby diminishes the quantity of fat that can be treated
therein.
"Now, my invention consists in applying the water to the fat
in several successive portions. I remove the first portion as soon
as it becomes partly saturated with glycerin, and I add successive portions of fresh water to the partly decomposed fat, which
fresh water is more active in taking up the last remaining glycerin of the fat, and thereby I render the decomposition more rapid
and complete, and can treat a larger quantity of fat in a given
apparatus.
" y invention can be applied to any of the different forms
of boilers or tanks used for the decomposition of fats by water
at a high temperature or pressure, either with or without lime,
which are now well known, and need no detailed description.
Instead of putting nearly an equal or more than an equal bulk
of water to the fat, I put in say only one-third of the bulk of,
the fat, and after this has been stirred up with the fat, and exposed to a high temperature and pressure during some time (say
from two to three hours, if working at from 120 lbs. to 150 lbs.
per square inch), I allow the water to settle, and blow it out of
the tank. A similar quantity of water, which has been pra
viously heated up to the working temperature of the apparatus
VOL.

=.

23

MITCHELL v. TILGHMAN.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.-Practicalness-Evidence claimed by both sides.
in a separate close iron vessel, is then forced into the tank by
steam pressure, and is stirred up with the fat, and after two or
three hours' mixture is settled and blown out as before; and
this is repeated until samples show that all the glycerin has been
extracted and that the fat is well decomposed.
"I will now describe another method of applying my invention to practice, whereby the operation is made continuous; that
is, the raw or neutral fat, either by itself or previously mixed
with a small quantity of alkali, is introduced in a continuous
stream, or nearly so, at one end of the apparatus, and the decomposed fat or fatty acids issue continuously, or nearly so,
from the other end of the apparatus, while at the same time the
water enters where the fat-acids issue, and following the opposite
route to that taken by the fat issues as a solution of glycerin
from that part of the apparatus where the raw fat enters. By
this method the fat which has lost nearly all its glycerin is
brought in contact with fresh water containing no glycerin, and
the -water partly charged with glycerin comes in contact with
raw fat containing all its natural glycerin.
"In the arrangement of this form of apparatus there are two
features which form distinct parts of my invention. As fat and
water dissolve each other, to a very slight extent, their action
upon each other is much accelerated by large surface of contact.
This large surface of contact has generally been produced by a
mechanical agitation and mixture of the two liquids; but as
this mixture is almost incompatible with a perfectly continuous
form of apparatus, I have devised plans whereby these advantages of large contact and renewal of the water may be obtained
by other means, either in continuous or intermittent forms of
apparatus.
" 1. I arrange the fat and water in numerous shallow layers,
so as to obtain large surface of contact.
"2. I cause the fat and water, arranged in shallow layers, to
flow in opposite directions, so as to bring fresh water in contact
with partly decomposed fat.
"The following is a description of the apparatus,it being understood that if any alkali is used (which is generally in but
small proportions, say one-half to one per cent. of the fat), it
should previously be combined with the fat."
[Here follows a description of the apparatus, and the schedule
nroceeds :1

Oct. 1873.]

MITCHELL

v.

TILGHMAN.

Statement of the case.-Infringement.

"What I claim as my invention, and desire to secure by
letters-patent, is"In the process of decomposing fats into fat-acids and glycerin by means of water at a high temperature or pressure, either

with or without the presence of an alkali,
"1st. Applying the water in several successive portions, and
removing those portions when partly saturated with glycerin.
"2d. Arranging the fat and water in shallow layers, so as to
give an increased surfhce of permanent contact between them.
"3d. Causing the fat and water arranged in shallow layers to
flow in opposite directions, so as to bring fresh water in contact
with the partly decomposed fat.
"11. A. TILGHMAN."
In 1867 ten factories in the United States were working
the water process under license from Tilghman, but none
of them probably with heat so high as 4400 Fahr., or without the aid of certain amounts of alkali, as described by C.
T. Jones, supra, p. 325.
AS TO THE MATTER OF INFRI WGMENT.
THE COMPLAINANT' S

SIDE OF THE QUESTION.

On this matter, Professors Booth, Rogers, Genth, Bridges,
and Gibbs, all testified that the defendant's process was
identical with Tilghman's.
"It is the same," said Professor Booth.
"I consider it to be identical," said Professor :Rogers; an
expression iterated by Professors Bridges, Genth, and Wolcott Gibbs.
THE DEFENDANT'S SIDE OF THE QUESTION.

Professor B. 1. Band, lecturer on chemistry at the Franklin Institute, from 1853 to 1862; Professor of Chemistry in
Philadelphia College of Medicine, 1853 to 1858; in the Medical Department of Pennsylvania College, 1859 to 1861; in
the Central High School, 1859 to 1864; and since 1864 in
the Jefferson Medical College:
"There is, in my opinion, a great difference in the mechanical
surroundings and conditions forming part of the processes of

MITCHELL V.

TILGHMAN.

[Sup. Ct

Statement of the case.-Infringement.

the complainant and defendant respectively. The process of
the complainant requires a very high temperature. It also requires vessels of very great strength, 'the working pressure'
being stated as not likely to exceed '2000 lbs. to the square
inch.' The conditions of complainant's process could not possibly be realized in the defendant's apparatus. The complainant's patent speaks of subjecting the mixture, in the continuous
apparatus, at the desired temperature, for ten minutes; the defendant's requires as many hours. Again, the requirements of
the patent, that ' the vessel must be closed and of great strength,
so that the requisite amount of pressure may be applied to prevent the conversion of the water into steam,' and ' no steam or
air should be allowed to accumulate in the tube, which should
be kept entirely full of the mixture,' do not exist in defendant's
processes, because the vessels employed by him are not full, or
nearly so, and steam, the source of the heat used, is constantly
present during the continuance of the processes. In my opinion,
therefore, the mode of working in the two processes is essentially
different.
"Again, it is my understanding of the patent of the complainant, that it describes and claims a process in which the decomposition of fats is effected by the sole action of water in the liquid
form, highly heated in close vessels.
"With this understandingof it, it is my belief that defendant's
processes are substantially different in a chemical sense."
It is obvious that on this matter of infringement Professor
Rand assumes the close construction of Tilghman's patent
to be the true one. Doubtless experts of the other side
assumed the broad one to be. So that here, as in a large
degree in the question of practicalness, the construction of
the patent was the fundamental question.
In this view of Professor Rand concurredMr. -. S. Renwick, residing at Milburn, New Jersey, and
occupied principally as expert in the trial of patent causes,
and in soliciting patents, and
Mr. .S. Wayne, of Cincinnati, chemist and druggist, engaged practically and theoretically for the last thirty years
in chemistry, formerly Professor of Chemistry in the Ohio
Medical College, Cincinnati, and of pharmacy and chemis-

Oct. 1873.]

MITCHELL V. TILGHMAN.
Statement of the ease.-Infringement.

try in the Cincinnati College of Pharmacy. Mr. Wayne,
after stating that he was fully satisfied that the patent of
Tilghmau described a different process from that of Mitchell,
because, among other reasons, "it describes a different apparatus," added on a different topic:
"I am of the opinion that the liquid water in Tilghman's
process is of itself of no value beyond furnishing the elements
of water for the decomposition, and that heat alone is the agent
causing the decomposition of the fats by water; and the pressure he claims and uses is the only way to obtain the heat nee
essary for this decomposition. The water is only necessary so
far as it furnishes the elements of water in chemical equivalent
to the fat to form respectively fat-acids and glycerin. Steam in
its chemical relations in this decomposition is equivalent and
identical with water. All that steam requires is the same temperature. This is given to it by superheating* it to the point
necessary for the decomposition. Fat-acids and glycerin is the
result. Could water be heated without pressure to the temperature necessary for the decomposition of fatty bodies, the
same result would follow as with the use of pressure, namely,
fat-acids and glycerin.

"Hence, I can perceive that there is no new discovery of the
decomposition of fatty matters by the agency of water alone,

and conceive the facts in relation to it have been known, mentioned, and experimented with prior to the complainant's patent.
Water and steam for the decomposition of fats require a high

temperature, and the higher the temperature the more rapid the
decomposition; but the introduction of another agent in the
decomposition, such as an alkali, or water containing a small
percentage of sulphuric or sulphurous acid, or neutral lime-soap,
the decomposition of fats into fat-acid and glycerin will take
place at a much lower temperature than can be effected by steam
or water alone."
In regard to the range of heat allowed by Tilghman's
patent Renwick said:
* By "superheating" steam is meant applying heat directly to steamA
which has been already generated by the action of heat on water. This
latter sort of steam is called 1saturate d steam ;" the former, "superheated
steam."-REP.

MITCHELL V. TILGHMAN.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.-Infringement.

"The temperature relied upon is one exceeding the melting-point
of tin (4400 F.), and not exceeding the melting-point of nitrate
of potash (6600 F.), the temperature of the melting-point of
lead (6120 F.) being the temperature for general practice."
Mr. Justice Nelson, in giving the opinion of the court
below, held:
"1. That Tilghman's invention consisted of a process for producing free fat-acids and solution of glycerin from fats and
oils.
"2. That ' for this purpose he subjects the fatty or oily bodies
to the action of water at a high temperature and pressure, so as
to cause the elements of these bodies to combine with water, and
thereby obtain at the same time free fat-acids and glycerin.'
"3. That Tilghman proposes to do this in any convenient vessel of the requisite strength, and that although under the law
he describes two vessels or apparatus for doing it, there is no
claim for any special vessel or machine.
"4. That Tilghman's patent does not require that the vessel

should be absolutely full of water and fat.*
"5. That Tilghman's patent does not requirethe use of a heat so
* "We cannot agree," said the court, when speaking of this point, "that
a fair construction of the specification tends to the conclusion either that the
vessel was to be entirely filled or that no steam was to be permitted in it.
No doubt it is true, as urged for the defendant, if thus filled and the vessel
closed, and the contents heated to the point cf melting lead, or under a pressure that would prevent the existence of steam, the process would be utterly
impracticable; and doubtless the patentee knew this would be the result as
well as any of the experts. It would require but the commonest knowledge
and experience in the business of life to reach such a conclusion. This moderate degree of knowledge, at least, should be kept in view in construing the
general terms of the description.
"Besides, the patentee does not direct that the vessel should be entirely

filled. This is an inference of the learned counsel, from the direction that
the vessel must be closed and be of great strength, so that the requisite
amount of pressure be applied to prevent the conversion of the water into
Stim.
"All that was intended, as is apparent from the context, by the patentee
was that the pressure should be so great as to prevent the body of the water
in the vessel from passing into steam, as the heated water was the element

that separated the fatty acids and glycerin. That there would necessarily
be some steam must have been obvious to the patentee as well as to any one
of common observation."

Oct. 1873.]

MITCHELL

v.

TILGHMAN.

Statement of the case.-Decision of Blatchford, J.
high as melting lead, but merely prescribes it as a maximum,
and announces that no fixed degree of heat can be given, as the
different fatty or oily substances that may be used will require
different degrees, and that by starting the vessel at a low heat
and gradually increasing it, the best temperature may be ascertained for the particular substance used.
"6. That upon a proper interpretation of the patent, the process could be and had been proved to have been carried into
successful operation by both the means pointed out by the patentee.
"7. That 'prior to the date of Tilghman's invention there were
but two modes known or in practical use for decomposing fatty
substances, and obtaining from them fatty acids and glycerin.
One called the lime saponification, and the other known as the
distillation process,' and that they were different from patentee's,
more expensive and tedious, and have generally gone out of use
in this country and England since appellee's invention.
"8. That Tilghman was the first person that discovered the
chemical fact that fatty or oily substances could be decomposed,
and that the fatty acids and glycerin separated by the action of
water at a high temperature and under pressure.
"9. That it is immaterial to inquire whether defendant's vessel
or machinery is similar to that described in Tilghman's patent;
they constitute no part of his invention.
"10. That the defendant has manufactured fat-acids and glycerin from fatty bodies by the action of water at a high temperature and pressure, according to the process explained by ap.
pellee in his specification, and hence had infringed his patent."
Mr. Justice Nelson accordingly decreed for the complainant.
The case afterwards came up before Judge Blatchford on
exceptions to the master's report or otherwise. That learned
justice on different occasions said:
"It is manifest, that the defendant decomposes fatty bodies
into fat-acids and glycerin by the action of water at a high temperature and pressure, and thus uses the plaintiff's process."
As to Mr. Justice Nelson's views, "that the plaintiff's
specification did not require, either that the vessel contain.
ing the mixture of water and fatty matter should be en.

MITCHELL V.

TILGHMAN.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.-Decision of McLean and Leavitt, JJ.

tirely filled therewith, or that no steam was to be permitted
in it," he said:
"On full consideration, I concur in his views, and have no
doubt that his interpretation of the specification in regard to
them was correct."
To the defence of want of practicalness he said:
"The defendant has entirely failed to show that the plaintiff's
process, carried out as described in his patent, is not practicable
or practical. It was put in practical operation in London in
1857, a patent having been taken out for it in England by the
plaintiff, January 9th, 1854. It was put in operation in Cincinnati, Ohio, in 1860, and has been in use, under license from the
plaintiff, in the United States, ever since, there being ten factories in the United States working under such license."
On the other points he agreed with Mr. Justice Nelson,
and in conclusion said:
"The great merit and value of the plaintiff's invention, not
only in the manufacture of candles, but as a process for obtaining pure glycerin for use in the arts, are shown by evidence.
The case is a clear one, on all points."
Decrees were finally entered for Tilghman for $335,661,
as the amount of the profits, with interest, which the defendant had made by infringement.
The merits of Tilghman's patent had also been before
Justices McLean and Leavitt, in Ohio, in TIghman v. Werk,
October, 1860. There was a concurrence of opinion between those judges about the case, and Mr. Justice McLean
was to deliver the opinion of the court in it. His death
having supervened, it was delivered in February, 1862, by
Leavitt, J. That learned justice said, that he had "no hesitation in concluding that the attempt to invalidate the plaintiff's patent for want of originality had wholly failed," and
that it was shown by "actual and successful experiments,"
made alike by experts and by the practical manufacturers,
Ropes and Grant, who made no mention of any difficulty
from a want of exactness in the specification as to the de.

Oct. 1873.]

MITCHELL

v.

TILGHIMAN.

Statement of the case.-Decision of Emmons, J.

gree of heat required, that free fat-acids and solution of
glycerin could be produced by Tilghman's process. Referring to the language of the specification in reference to the
temperature of the heated water, he said:
"The specification seems to be sufficiently explicit. There is
a precise degree of heat, the melting-point of lead, 6120 Fahr.,
recommended and prescribed as sure to produce a good result in
changing common fatty bodies to acid and glycerin; and a lower
temperature, the melting-point of bismuth, 5100, when palm oil
or similar substances are to be operated upon. And it clearly
does not render the specification liable to objection for want of
certainty and clearness, that the patentee states that the degree of heat may be carried above these figures without injury. Nor is the sufficiency of the description impeached by
the fact that the desired result has been produced at a lower
temperature of water. There is a fixed rule given which may
be safely followed, while it is made known that the manufacturer
may safely depart to some extent, from this rule, if from experiment and a just exercise of discretion it should be expedient to
do so.
"DECREE

ACCORDINGLY."

The matter came up also subsequently to all these decisions before Mr. Justice Emmons, in the Ohio Circuit Court,
in the cases of Tilghman v. Werk, Kirby et al., and of Tilghmnan v. Shillito. That learned justice there said, that "were
he to consider this matter uninfluenced by precedent, he
feared that he should be compelled to give the patent a more
limited construction than it had received," and to hold "that
the claim included only those higher degrees of heat at
which lead and other substances mentioned in the patent
will melt."
He added, however, that without a violation of judicial
propriety, he could not disregard the judgments of his own
court and of the co-ordinate one in New York, adding:
"Especially -s this so where the judge delivering the opinion
has taken so leading a part in all the discussions, on the subject
in the court of last resort."

MITCHELL

v.

TILGHMA..

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for Mitchell.

It was from the decrees in New York that the case was
now here.
Mfessrs. W. XI. Evarts and C. 31. Keller (with whom was Mr.
S. D. Law), for the appellant:
I. What is the construction of the patent2
These facts of science, it is submitted by us, were known
prior to the year 1854, the date of Tilghman's patent.
1. That water is composed of two gases, oxygen and bydrogen; the former of which acidifies what it unites with,
and the latter of which hydrates what it unites with.
2. That fats are composed of fat-acids, to wit: 1st. Of
stearin combined with oxide of glyceryl as a base (the compound being called stearate). 2d. Of margarin combined
with the same oxide and a base (the compound being called
margarate); and 3d. Of olein combined with the same oxide
and a base (the compound being called oleate).
3. That if you take away the oxide of glyceryl from the
stearin, margarin, and olein, you must, if you still want the
fat-acids, supply some other oxide with which they may
unite and so become again acidified. And so too if you
want glycerin, you must supply something to hydrate the
element of glyceryl (which hydration of glyceryl makes
glycerin).
4. That high temperatures would decompose the fats; the
temperatures varying with different fats, from about 5100 F.,
the melting-point of bismuth, to 6100 F., the melting-point
of lead, the very temperaturesnamed and required by Tilghman;
and that this process of decomposition is of no value only
because the heat, while decomposing the fats generally, destroys all valuable products.
5. That by putting the fat into water and mixing both

with lime-which is an oxide-or with other oxides, such as
soda, potash, &c., the fat-acids could be obtained; and that
by boiling the solution under pressure (though at lower
temperatures than from 510' F. to 6100 F.), the proportion
of lime could be reduced; this tending to show that a por-

Oct. 1873.]

OMITCHELL

V. TILGHMAN.

Argument for Mitchell.

tion of the fatty acids were oxidized by the oxygen of the
water.
6. That water can be heated up to and beyond 610' F.,
in vessels entirely full, so that steam shall not be produced;
the vessels being provided with a piston weighted, so as to
yield to the expansion of the liquid by the heat applied, and
that though in a vessel not entirely full even an intimate
admixture of fat and water could not long subsist (the fat
and water having different specific gravities, and the fat
tending therefore to float), yet, that when the vessel is entirely filled with such intimate admixture, the fat and water
will not separate.
And we submit that the evidence in this case proves that
fats had been decomposed by steam;* the successful production of glycerin being sometimes affirmed and sometimes
denied.
Now, in view of these facts known in 1854, it is a fair
presumption that Mitchell's theory, so fully sustained by
Professor Wayne, as to Tilghman's purpose when he got his
patent, is the true one;t and that Tilghman in his specification did mean to confine himself:
1st. To the range of heat stated and such as would also
decompose fats; adding water to acidify by its oxygen the
fats, and to hydrate, by its hydrogen, the glyceryl.
2d. To the use of a close vessel entirely full of the mixture
of fat and water so that no steam could be formed; a
matter which he knew could be effected by digesters with a
safety-valve.
3d. To the use of liquid water to the exclusion of steam,
so as to distinguish his process from previously known processes through steam.
4th. To the thorough admixture of the fat before putting
it into the vessel, and during the manipulation.
If this is so his patent cannot receive a construction broad
enough to cover Mitchell. That it is so seems most probable.
The high pressure named in the patent is only a conse* See wupra, p. 357.

t Supra, pp. 302, 357.

MIITCHELL

v.

TILGEMAN.

[
[Sup.
Ct.

Argument for Mitchell.

quence of the high temperature required, viz., from 5100
Fahr. to 6100 Fahr. The range of heat and not the pressure is the condition required. The pressure, named in the
patent, was unavoidable in subjecting fats in the presence of
liquid water to the high temperatures named. Heat to the
requisite very high degree was what Tilghman's purpose
required, with water as an attendant aid. This, it is obvious,
is a process different in its nature from that which Tilghman
now sets up, and which Mitchell practices.
But assuming that water, heat, and pressure used as the
chemical decomposing agent were what Tilghman had in
his mind, it is plain that he had no idea that the required
result could be produced by them at less degrees than from
5100 to 6100, depending upon the quality of the fat to be
treated. Why else did he prescribe apparatus of the strength
which he does; apparatus to be tested at a pressure of 10,000
lbs. to the square inch; with a safety-valve loaded to a pressure of 2000 lbs. Apparatus demanding such high pressure, he must have known, even if scientifically safe, is
never-and for good reasons, seeing that they have no men
of science to watch their engines-liked by manufacturers;
the class whom alone could make his labors practically
valuable. Yet he not only never tried any lower degrees
of heat, but nowhere so much as intimated that the process
is practicable with any lower. His letter to the Cincinnati
firm of Emry & Son, of the 25th of June, 1856,* shows that
he had no idea when he applied for his patent that he could
work with lower heats, and that as soon as he did discover
that he could so work, lie began to do so.
II. But if the patent were susceptible of a construction
broad enough to include all ranges of high temperature, the
complainant's case is not helped.
1. There is no novelly in Tilghman's alleged discovery. The
change of fat into fatty acids, through the means that he
speaks of, was announced to the scientific world as early as
1828, in a paper published in the Scientific Journal of that
* Supra, p. 844.

Oct. 1873.]

MITCHELL V. TILGHMAN.

Argument for Mftchell.

year, and referred to in the evidence.* The testimony of
Professor Vanderweyde and of Florence Verdin and of Professor Wayne, show this.t
2. The process is incapable of being practically used by any
descriptiongiven in the specification.
Certainly the process has never been reduced to practice
in the United States by the mode of operation or the means
described in it. There is not one of the licensees of Tilghman who uses his water, heat, and pressure alone. Even
his witness and licensee, Charles Taylor Jones, proves this.
All use alkalies. To say nothing of the fact that all work
at low heat. His licensees, the Ropeses, father and son, show
the same thing.
The process was never reduced to practice in England in
the business of manufacturing fatty acids and solution of
glycerin. Wilson & Co. may have paid Tilghman for something; but there is no evidence that they ever used water,
heat, and pressure to produce fat-acids and glycerin. Tilghman himself could not tell what process they used.
The patentee, after selling his French patent to Monier,
tried during months and with the outlay of great sums to
make the process work at the stearinerie of Villette, but
failed after repeated trials in everything, and the F'rench
jury declare the process a failure.
The tests made by the chemical experts, on the part of
the patentee, were not made in accordance with the mode
of operation described in the patent; Professor Booth and
the other experts having experimented not with the coil
apparatus, but with a distiller's worm. Moreover, they are
all theorists; their experiments were in very nice apparatus
and on a small scale, and neither their experiments nor
their evidence are of value on a practical subject to be applied on a large scale.
The patent to Tilghman of May 15th, 1860, virtually condemns the patent in issue, as not practically useful.
III. As to infringement. On this point the learned counsel
* Supra,p. 314.

. Supra, pp. 315, 816.

366

MITCHELL V. TILEMAW.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for Tilghman.

contended, that even on a very broad view of the patentone much broader than that which they had already contended for, and believed to be the true legal view-(a view
obviously held by Emmons, J.) there was no infringement;
that Mitchell's apparatus was peculiar and unlike Tilghman's
apparatus; that it was composed of two vessels, and that the
bubbles of superheated water were carried u.p by the steam
from one vessel into the other, and that the superheated
water there falling on the fat descended through it, decomposing it on its passage, thus producing a circulation; that
this circulation of Mitchell's apparatus was opposed to and
annihilated the theory and scheme upon which Tilghman's
patent was framed, which required, as an essential condition,
that there should be no circulation. If,indeed, it were that
Tilghman discovered that water alone would acidify the other
elements and hydrate the glycerin, he did not claim it in his
patent, and if he did, it was a fact in nature incapable of
being patented.
As to the Circuit Court decrees they had no authority
here. In the case before McLean and Leavit, JJ., the testimony was less full than here.
Mr. George -Harding,contra:
I. What isthe construction of the patent ? The first position
of the other side is, that heat alone from 5100 F. to 6100 F.
itself decomposes fat destructively; that this is alone the
operative agency in Tilghman's process; that the water
operates as a base; and that Tilghman specifies as his temperature degrees of heat from 5100 F. to 6100 F.; and that
he is limited to them.
One sufficient answer to this is as follows: Specifications
are addressed to those skilled in the art. Now, Renwick,
an expert called by Mitchell himself, and giving testimony
on this exact point, says that "the temperature relied on is
one exceeding the melting-point of tin (4400 F.), and not exceeding the melting-point of nitrate of potash (6600 F.)."*
See supra, pp. 803 and 357-8.

Oct. 1873.]

MITCHELL

v.

TILGHMAN.

Argument for Tilghman.

Rand, another expert of Mitchell, fixes the temperature of
Tilghman's patent at the same points.* Here then Mitchell
proves as part of his case that practical men would be instructed by the patent to use any temperature above 4400
and below 660'. This range extends from 700 below the
lowest limit fixed by Mitchell to 500 above the highest.
Rand and Wayne both testify that the chemical action of
water heated and under pressure is the same below 4400 as
above that point, and the same from 3000 to 600'.
Further. Tilghman's patent says, that the change of fatty
matters into fat-acid and glycerin, takes place with some
things, such as palm oil, at or below the pelting-point of
bismuth, 5100. By starting the apparatus at a low heat, and
gradually increasing it, the temperature giving products
most suitable, &c., can be easily determined. A limit to 5100
as a minimum is grossly inconsistent with this passage.
The next position of the other side is that granting what
we thus assert, still Tilghman had no idea that his process
was practicable except at or above the ranges 5100.
Now, the language of the claim in Tilghman's patent differs from the language of claims to patents generally. Had
it followed that language it would have run thus:
"Having now described the nature of my said invention, and
the manner of performing the same, I hereby declare that I
claim, as of my invention, the manufacturing of fat-acids and
glycerin from fatty bodies by the action of water at a high temperature and pressure, substantially in the manner described."
But in Tilghman's claim the words in italic are left off.
Tilghman obviously had a determination to cut away fron
and to keep himself'clear of everything which could be regarded as working through specific machinery, or in specific
times, or through any specific temperature other than that
And
which would come within the designation "high."
thus
depurpose
of
this
in
the
face
has
he,
the question is,
himclared in one part of the schedule to his patent, so tied
self up in another part of the same schedule as that, going
* See supra, 303.

MITCHELL v.

TILGHMAN.

[Sup. (it.

Argument for Tilghman.

in free from them all, he comes out, bound indissolubly, and
as with hooks of steel, to the very things which it is plain that
it was his purpose to avoid? After announcing a wish to
secure one result, has he reached a directly opposite result?
reached it, too, with such malignant effect as that a great
discovery, which has done honor to the United States in the
eyes of Europe, and which men of science-and to a great
degree men of trade as well-have delighted in calling his,
is brought at once disastrously to naught?
If Tilghman has not bound himself to degrees of heat between 510' F. and 610' F.; if completion of his process, in
at most ten minutes, is not indispensable; if he has not required that the vessel containing the mixture of water and
fttty matter should be entirely filled therewith, or that no
steam was to be permitted in it; and if in other respects he
has not required things impracticable, then there is no difficulty in his case. Now1. As to the heat. Tilghman having in the opening part of
his specification announced that for the purpose of carrying
into practice his invention, he subjects the fat bodies on
which he wishes to operate simply "to the action of water
at a high temperature" and pressure, announces two modes of
working. In the first he says:
"I mix the fatty body to be operated upon with from a third
to a half of its bulk of water, and the mixture may be placed in
any convenient vessel in which it can be heated to the meltingpoint of lead, until the operation is complete. The vessel must
be closed and of great strength, so that the requisite amount of
lressure may be applied to prevent the conversion of the water
into steam."
He also describes a special apparatus. He says:
"The process may be performed more rapidly and also continuously by causing the mixture of fatty matter and water to pass
through a tube or continuous channel, heated to the temperature
already mentioned; the requisite pressure for preventing the conversion of water into steam being applied during the process;
and this, I believe, is the best mode of carrying my invention
into effect."

Oct. 1873.]

MITCHELL

v.

TILGHMAN.

Argument for Tilghman.

This, he "believes," is "the best mode;" the "tempera ture already mentioned," that is, the melting-point of lead
being included, as much as and no more than the use of the
tubes.
On this subject of heat he continues:
"Although the decomposition of the neutral fats by water
takes place with great quickness at the proper heat, yet I prefer
that the pumps should be worked at such a rate in proportion
to the length or capacity of the heating tubes, that the mixture,
while flowing through them, should be maintained at the desired
temperature for ten minutes before it passes into the refrigerator
or cooling parts of the apparatus."
He says further:
"The melting-point of lead has been mentioned as the proper
heat to be used in this operation, because it has been found to
give good results. But the change of fatty matters into fatacids and glycerin takes place with some materials (such as
palm oil) at or below the melting-point of bismuth, yet the heat
has been carried considerably above the melting-point of lead
without any apparent injury, and the decomposing action of the
water becomes more powerful as the heat is increased. By starting the apparatus at a low heat, and gradually increasing id, the
temperaturegiving products most suitable to the intended application
of the fatty body employed can easily be determined."
fHe goes on again:
"To indicate the temperature of the tubes, I have found the
successive melting of metals and other substances of different
and known degrees of fusibility to be convenient in practice.
...
The series I have used consist of tin, melting at about 44Q
F.; bismuth, at about 5100 F.; lead, at about 6120 F.; and nitrate of potash, at about 6600 F."
And now, before all this description, how had he begun ?

Thus:
"My invention consists of a process for producing free fatacids and solution of glycerin from those fatty and oily bodies
of animal and vegetable origin which contain glycerin as their
base. For this purpose, I subject these fatty or oily bodies to
the action of water at a high temperature and pressure."
VOL. XIX.

24

MITCHELL V. TILGHMAN.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for Tilghman.

And how, after all this, does he end? Thus:
"Having now described the nature of my said invention, and
the manner of performing the same, I hereby declare that I
claim as of my invention, the manufacturing of fat-acids and
glycerin from fatty bodies by the action of water at a high temperature and pressure."
In the face of such a beginning, and such an ending, how
can it be said that the patentee had no conception of anybody's doing anything by his process but when working with
or between the exact two degrees of 5100 F. and 6100 F. ?
The point that Mitchell makes, as to both the vessels, is
ihat he uses a lower temperature than that stated by Tilghman to be his preference. But does not the general include
the particular? And after the general announcement that
water at a high temperature and pressure will decompose
fats, how can any one argue that it still remained unknown
that it would do so at any particular high temperature and
pressure? It would follow, if the argument of the other
side were good, that the day after Tilghman got his patent,
another person could have obtained a valid patent for using
the same process at all temperatures not specifically mentioned by Tilghman. Tilghman's discovery was that water
at a high temperature and pressure had a certain chemical
power; that it was for a purpose mentioned a new chemical
agent. If his discovery had been that nitric acid would produce fat-acids, and he had said, I prefer to use strong nitric
acid of 200 B., but weaker acid will act less powerfully, and
I claim the use of nitric acid generally, could a man have
used nitric acid of 10 B. and have said that it was a different
invention ? The chemical action of water upon fat is the
same at.3000 as at 6120 F. This is proved in the case.*
2. As to rapidity of manipulation; ten minutes. That plainly
is but a consequence of the rate at which you work the
pump. It" you pump fast you will get the product with
"great quickness," if you have used "the proper heat."
"Yet, Iprefer," says Tilghman, "that the pump be worked
See supra, p. 303.

Oct. 1873.]

MITCHELL V. TILGHMAN.
Argument for Tilghman.

at such a rate . . . that the mixture should be maintained
at the desired temperature for ten minutes." But may not
any one else who has used "the proper heat" drive the
pump faster, and get his product the moment it is made, or
drive it more slowly and not get it till after more than ten
minutes, say not till fifteen ?
3. As to the fulness of the heating vessel. In the court below
the assumption was made by the other side that the specification required the heating vessel to be full, and the argument then was that as it would of necessity burst the patent
was void.* The argument of the same side here, now assumes that it must be full, and that it will not burst for
certain very good reasons stated. The answer is the same
to both these internecine arguments; to wit, that neither in
the first nor in the second modes set forth by Tilghman, was
the vessel required by the specification to be full; though
in the second one the tubes-which in the particular coil apparatus, described by Tilghman, happen to be also the vessel
in which the mixture is heated-are so required to be, in
order that steam may be kept out from them. The witness,
C. T. Jones, a practical manufacturer, explains what, both
here and in the court below, has confused the counsel.1"
That witness states that there are reasons obvious to any
one accustomed to boilers, why, in the first process of Tilghman, the heating vessel should not be filled (the reason being
obviously that it would burst), and that obvious reasons
occur to him why, in the second, the tubes should be kept
full; which is to keep steam out of them and prevent irregular working of the machinery. If steam were permitted to
accumulate and displace the highly heated liquid water away
from the fat in the tube, the decomposition would not take
place regularly.
So in regard to other matters. Alkalies had long been
used in this operation. Tilghman did not deem it necessary
to say that if the operator thought well to throw in a dash
of lime he might do so. It has been frequently decided
"*Supra, p. 358, note.

tf Supra, pp. 322, 323.

MITCHELL

v.

TILGHMAN.

[Sup. Cr.

Argument for Tilghman.

that known things need not be described when they are
used in carrying out a newly patented invention. English
and American cases alike lay down this rule.*
So again it was obvious that lower heat and longer time
would give the result of higher heat and less time.
IL The originality of Tilglinan's invention we leave on
the evidence. Professor Vanderweyde and Mr. Verdin are
the only persons called to disprove the originality; but they
give no testimony at all in the case. They testify only to certain singular facts about themselves. Neither had ever seen
a book of science in which it was stated that Tilghman had
discovered anything about the decomposition of fats at all.t
4. Concede that the experiments of Dr. Vanderweyde and
Dr. Doremus were not successful. What kind of experiments were they? Experiments made with Verdin, at the
factory of the defendant, in a vessel probably soiled with
dirt, and where the chief experimenter, Verdin, had a vast
pecuniary interest not to make the experiment succeed, but
to make it fail. And they managed everything so well that,
to a considerable degree, it did fail. Yet they confess that
they always got some fat-acids and some glycerin.1
5. We offered repeatedly to show in operation to Mitchell
the very apparatus from which our experts got our fat-acids
and glycerin, and he declined to see it. What if he did
offer to show to us an apparatus so made by him as not to
succeed, and offer to alter it, as we should tell him. If we
showed to him an apparatus made according to the specification, that had done and would do the work, that was
enough. We were not bound to be delayed by his alterations of an apparatus perhaps radically defective.
ILL. Praclicalness. 1. Four experts-men of the highest
reputation in chemical science throughout the country-say
that they have made experiments in accordance with the
specification, and that the process is perfectly practicable.
The manufacturers, as Jones, and Ropes, and Grant, all say
* Househill & Co. v. Nelson, Webster's Patent Cases, 687; Emerson v.
Hogg, 2 Blatchford.
Supra, pp. 318, 319.
$ Supra, p. 333.
t Supra, pp. 315, 316.

Oct. 1873.]

MITCHELL

v.

TILGHMAN.

Argument for Tilghman.

substantially the same thing.* It is said that they use low
heat and a dash of alkali. It is said that while they all say
they are using the "Tilghman process" they are not using
it; for that they use different degrees of heat, a dash of alkali,
and quite different apparatus from the coil. But this argument acts in two ways. What does it prove, but that these
manufacturers, these practical men, these men who have to
pay for using this process, all .regard the lower degrees of
high heat and the use of a dash of alkali, and an apparatus
unlike the coil, as within Tilghman's patent. Like the four
great experts, they distinguish accident from essence, incident from substance, an illustration from the principle receiving it. We have here, then, a construction of the patent
from a very high source. Besides, they all declare that with
higher heat, and water and pressure merely, they can produce the results very well; and some of them, that they have
done so.
2. But the payment of 1000 for year after year by Price
& Co.'s great British candle company stands in the place of
all other argument. It is r~ponse sans repliqte. No manufacturers on the earth were so competent to say whether
what the scope of the invention was and whether it had
practical value, none so much interested to say that it had
none, yet Mr. G. F. Wilson, their managing agent, the most
competent of witnesses, publicly declared that "all must admit it a beautiful, original chemical idea, well carried out."t
Tilghman, of course, was never inducted into the areana of
their factories. Such .places in Great Britain are closed to
the public; and Mr. Mitchell has himself told us why Tilghman saw no more than he did.
3. Monier's testimony is reduced to naught in the face of
his compromise with Tilghman, by which he paid him one
thousand francs, and still more of his letter to Fontaine Moreau, in which it is asserted that De Milly was using and
greatly profiting by Tilghman's process. Indeed, in his testimony, Monier says that the "Messrs." Tilghman "paid no
* Supra, pp. 324, 340, 343.

t

uporg , p. 814.

MITCHELL

v.

TILGHMAN.

[Sup. Ot.

Argument for Tilghman.

attention to the process patented," and "made-not serious experiments,-but trials to find the means that arrested
them."* Arrested them in what? In their endeavors to
carry out some ridiculous ideas of improvement in their process which were Monier's own; and for his vexation about
which, to the Tilghmans, he finally had to pay and did pay
them one thousand francs.
4. With the annihilation of Monier's account of things,
the report of the French jury falls lifeless to the ground.
5. It is argued that Tilghman's letter of June 25th, 1856,
to the Cincinnati house of Emry & Son, showed that he did
not originally know that he could work at low heats, and
that as soon as he learned the fact he changed his mode of
working. It shows no such thing. The case is this: Tilghman, being a scientific and careful man, knowing exactly
what steam machinery was safe and how to regulate it, preferred to work rapidly, cheaply, and to use a pressure of
2000 lbs. to the square inch; a pressure which Nason, a
practical steam-engineer, testifies is perfectly safe in tubular
apparatus.t But in cities, where explosions of common
boilers sometimes occur in manufactories with awful loss of
life, a horror prevails of the very idea of high pressure. It
is a prejudice. Finding it too strong to be resisted, Tilghman conformed to it, and in 1856 introduced low pressures,
and let his licensees take more time, and pay more money.
6. The purpose of Tilghman's patent of 1860, relied on to
defeat the patent of 1854, was quite different from that
patent, as appears by examination of it.
The patent of 1860 was for an improvement in that of
1854; and had no other design than to enable the operator
to secure the glycerin produced in the operation, with the
least quantity of water, or in other words in a higher state
of concentration.
Glycerin is soluble in water, and, of course, the less water
that can be used the better. When the water and fat are
put in a single vessel there is only a single surface of contact. By the use of a series of trays, such as the patent of
SSuprd, pp. 347, 348.

t" ,Supra,p. 349.

Oct. 1873.]

MITCHELL V.

TILGHMAN.

Argument for Tilghman.

1860 provided for, and the establishment of opposite currents of fat and water, the contact of the water and fat is
greatly extended, and hence less water suffices. This improvernent is applicable alike to high and to low pressures.
Inasmuch, however, as in the interval between 1854, the
date of his first patent, and 1860, the date of the second
one, Tilghman's process had gone into general use at lower
temperatures, and with the use occasionally of small percentages of alkali, he describes his improvement of 1860 so
as to make it applicable to his prior invention as subsequently used.
IV. As for infringement. The chief witness of the other
side is Professor Rand. He says:
"There is a great difference in the mechanical surroundings
and conditions forming part of the processes of the complainant
and defendant respectively."
He assumes that the "mechanical surroundings" of Tilghman's special apparatus are of the essence of Tilghman's
patent, though Tilghman expressly disclaimed, as part of
his invention, that special apparatus. Five experts, who
look beyond "mechanical surroundings" into scientific and
deep-laid truths, contradict him. The question is one of
construction of the patent, and if it is not construed in the
very narrow way in which the witness construes it, the infringement will hardly be denied.
Tilghman was the inventor of a process; that is to say, a
result produced by chemical action; a thing for which it is
lawful to take out a patent as much as for a new machine.
Now, the law on that subject was thus declared in lousehill
Company v. Neilson,* in a way acknowledged in this court as
right :t
" You may obtain a patentfor a mode of carryinga principle into
effect; and if you suggest and discover not only the principle,
but suggest and invent how it may be applied to a practicalresult by
Webster's Patent Cases, 683.
Corning v. Borden, 15 Howard, 267; O'Reilly v. Morse, Ib. 62, where
CMorse's case was distinguished from Househill Company v. Neilson.

376

MITCHELL

v.

[Sup. Ct.

TILGHMAN.

Argument for Tilghman.

mechanical contrivance and apparatus,and show that you are aware
that no particularsort or modification of form of apparatusis essential in order to obtain benefit from the principle, then you may take'
your patentfor the mode of carrying it into effect, and are not under
the necessity of describingand confining yourself to one form of apparatus."

What is said here of apparatus will apply, of course, and
with greater force, to temperature.
Now, Tilghman having made the discovery that water
-when heated and retained in a liquid state by pressure in a
close vessel to prevent its escaping as steam, possessed certain chemical powers with reference to fat, did not stop there.
He went on to find out how this principle might be made
practically useful. The first thing was to discover by experiment how much water was necessary, and he announces
in his patent that from one-third to one-half of the bulk of
the fat will produce the result.
The next thing was to discover the degree of heat, and
length of time, and he naturally sought to do it in the shortest
time, and he found by experiment, and announces in his
patent, that the higher the temperature the more powerful
is the action, and that at the temperature of about 612'
Fahr., the action will take place in ten minutes.
In Whitney's patent for a process for making chilled peripheries or treads of iron carwheels, the language of Whitney
in describing his process was that "the temperature of the
furnace or chamber and its contents are gradually raised to
a point a little below that at which fusion commences;" when,

he added, "that by this process all parts of each wheel are
raised to an equal temperature." This was the only instruction as to temperature given in that patent.

On a suit by

Whitney against Mowry, the defendant relied on two points
in opposition to that claini in the specification: *
1. "ThatWhitney's patent was void, because it designated
and provided for such a degree of reheating and none other
(I a little below that at which fusion commences '), as would de*

Mowry v. Whitney, 14 Wallace, 630, 636.

0At. 1878.1

MITCHELL v. TILGHMAN.
Argument for Tilghman.

stroy the chilled periphery or tread, an essential feature to a
carwheel."
2. "That Mowry's process did not infringe on Whitney's
patent, because it was incredible (that in the Mowry process), any such degree of reheating is or could result as was
contemplated in Whitney's patent."
But this court rejected this narrow view, and said:*
"It would be most unreasonable to read the directions of the
specification without reference to the object which they profess
to have in view. . . . We do not think it a fair construction of
the patentee's language to hold that it requires the heat to be
raised in all cases to a degree only a little below the point of
fusion. He does not attempt to give any more definite direction than that all parts of the wheel must be raised to the same
temperature, suggesting in a parenthesis ('say, a little below
that at which fusion commences'). He fixes a maximum."
This was the view taken in accordance with settled law
by McLean and Leavitt, JJ., when the case was before them.t
This case has been before no less than five judges, and oil
three different occasions all have given judgment in favor
of Tilghman. Two of these judges, McLean and Nelson,
were reverend judges of this court; and both eminent in
their knowledge of the law of patents. The labors and the
judgments of the dead are as sterling as those of the living.
The speculative questionings of Emmons, J., are worth
nothing in view of the fact that he decided the case in full
face of and against them. The case here is on the identical evidence on which it was before Nelson and Blatchford,
JJ., who on that evidence adjudged the patent good and the
defendant an infringer, and the construction of the specification of the patent in which Nelson, Blatchford, McLean,
and Leavitt, JJ., were clear and unanimous, and on which
Emmons, J., followed them is a matter which is independent
of evidence altogether. The opinions and judgments of so
many and so learned judges deserve a very high respect.
* Mowry v. Whitney, 14 Wallace, 645, 646.

t Supr a , p. 860.

MITCHELL

v.

TILGHMAN.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.-Recapitulation of the pleadings.

Mr. Justice CLIFFORD delivered the opinion of the court.
Exclusive jurisdiction, in all actions at law and suits in
equity arising under any act of Congress granting or confirming to inventors the right to their inventions or discoveries, is conferred upon the Circuit Court, subject to the
condition that the final judgment or decree in such a controversy may be removed here for re-examination.
On the third of October, 1854, letters-patent were granted
to the complainant for a new and useful improvement in
processes for purifying fatty and oily substances of animal
and vegetable origin and which contain glycerin (glyceryl)
as their base. His invention, as the patentee states, consists of a new and improved mode of treating such substances
in order to produce fat-acids and solution of glycerin, which,
as he says, was not known or used before his application,
and the recital of the patent is that it shall take effect from
the ninth day of January preceding the date of the instrument. By virtue of the said letters-patent, as the complainant alleges in his bill of complaint, he acquired the exclusive
right to make and use the described improvement, and to
vend the same to others to be used; and he also alleges that
the respondent, prior to the time when the bill of complaint
was filed, without his license and in violation of his rights,
engaged in making and using his patented process, and that
he, the respondent, intends to continue to make and use the
same, as set forth in the bill of complaint. Service was
made and the respondent appeared and filed an answer setting up several defences, as follows:
1. That the complainant, on the ninth of January, 1854,
was not the original and first inventor of the improvement
described in the said letters-patent.
2. That the result described in the specification and claims
of the patent cannot be accomplished, so as to be practically
useful, by the method and apparatus described in the specification.
3. That the respondent never practiced or used the patented process of the complainant as charged in the bill of
complaint, or in any other manner. H'e admits that he is

Oct. 1873.]

MITCHELL V. TILGHMAN.

Opinion of the court.-Construction of the patent.

engaged in manufacturing candles, and that in manufacturing such articles he uses water and steam at high temperature, and that he also uses such pressure as arises from the
expansive force of hot water or steam in a close vessel, but
lie denies that he uses any such method, process, or appar
atus as those described in the letters-patent of the complainant.
4. That the patented processes described in the specification were. well known to chemists and men of science and
to manufacturers long before the alleged invention of the
complainant, and were also used and practiced by them and
were described in printed publications before the complainant filed his application for a patent.
5. That the use of a close vessel of sufficient strength to
resist the pressure of water when heated, or any pressure
needed when using water to decompose other substances,
was known to, and practiced by, men of science and manufacturers in this country and elsewhere long before the alleged invention; that highly heated water when used as
described is an elementary principle open and free to all, and
that such a principle is not one that is subject to a patent;
that a prior knowledge of the alleged invention was possessed by many other persons, and that the same was described in many printed publications, as fully set forth in
the answer.
Issues of the kind cannot be intelligently determined without a clear understanding of the nature and scope of the invention secured by the letters-patent, as it is the patented
invention which it is alleged the respondent has infringed,
and in order to such an understanding it becomes necessary,
as a preliminary step in the investigation, to construe and
define the claims of the-patent, as the most efficient means
of ascertaining the precise nature and extent of the inquiry
involved in the respective issues presented in the pleadings.
What the patentee claims as his invention is the process
of manufacturing fat-acids and glycerin from fatty or oily
substances by the action of water at a high temperature and

380

MITCHELL V. TILGHMAN.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.-Coistruetion of the patent.

pressure, which, beyond doubt, is the true object of the invention described in the specification, as plainly appears
from the description of the means employed by the patentee
to decompose the described substances and to produce the
described result. His invention, as the patentee states, consists of a process to produce fat-acids and glycerin from the
described fatty and oily substances by subjecting tile substances to the action of water at a temperature and pressure,
so high as to decompose those substances and cause the elements of the same to combine with water, and by such
means to produce fat-acids and solution of glycerin, which
is the described result. Specific description is also given as
to the relative quantity of water to be used, and of the character of the vessel to be employed, as means to create the
high temperature and pressure and to decompose the original substances, and cause the elements of the same to combine with the water to produce the result described in the
patent. Such substances, the specification. states, must be
mixed with a quantity of water, equal in bulk to one-third
or one-half of the fatty or oily substance to be subjected to
the patented process, and that the mixture of the substance
and the water must be placed in some convenient vessel in
which it can be heated to the melting-point of lead and be
kept at that temperature until the operation is complete.
Undoubtedly the mixture may be placed in any convenient
vessel of sufficient strength to resist the internal pressure
when the solution is heated to the point described in the
specification, but it is equally clear that any vessel not strong
enough to resist such a pressure would not be a convenient
one for such a purpose, nor is any one of less strength within
the contemplation of the patentee, as he states with emphasis that the vessel must be closed and of great strength,
so that the requisite amount of pressure may be applied to
prevent tie conversion of the water into steam, and'he might
have added, to prevent the vessel from bursting. Hiigh temperature, in the view of the patentee, is indispensable, and
inasmuch as the vessel must be closed it follows that the
vessel must be one of great strength, as the high tempera-

Oct. 1873.]

MITCHELL

v. TILGHMAN.

Opinion of the court.-Construction of the patent.

ture will necessarily produce very great internal pressure.
Hence the requirement is that the vessel must be one of
great strength, and the patentee suggests, as the best mode of
carrying his invention into effect, that the mixture, prepared
as described, be passed through a tube or continuous channel, heated to the before-mentioned temperature, that is, to
the melting-point of lead.
Figures of the several parts of the described apparatus for
performing the operation are given in the drawings, and the
inventor proceeds to state, that in applying his process and
carrying it into ieffect he places the fat or oil to be subjected
to the process in the receiving vessel shown in the drawings,
with from one-third to one-half its bulk of warm water, and
to eflct the described result he employs a piston with a perforated disk, arranged to work up and down, in the receiving vessel, which being kept in rapid motion will cause the
fat or oil and the water to form an emulsion or intimate
mechanical mixture, which is the mixture to be subjected to
the high temperature and pressure. But the heat is to be
applied in another vessel, as shown in the drawings, and for
the purpose of removing the mixture to such other vessel
the inventor employs a force-pump, like those in use for
hydraulic presses, by means of which he drives the mixture
into and through a long coil of very strong iron tube, which
being placed in a furnace is continued there until the mixture is heated to the temperature of melting lead. Attached
to the opposite end of the coil is a refrigerator or cooling
apparatus, but the inventor states that he prefers that the
high temperature of the mixture should be maintained for
ten minutes before the product passes through that part of
the coil immersed in water, by which it is cooled down from
its high temperature to 2100 Fahr., after which it escapes
through the exit valve to the vessel prepared to Teceive the
product of the patented process. High heat applied in the
manner and by the means described is unquestionably the
agent employed by the patentee to decompose the fatty and
oily substances to be subjected to the patented process, and
it is equally certain that he contemplates that the tempera-

MITCHELL V.

TILGHMAN.

[Sup. Ct,

Opinion of the court.-Construction of the patent

ture shall be so high that the fatty and oily substances, as
mixed with the water, in the manner before explained, will
be decomposed and converted into fat-acids and solution of
glycerin in a brief space of time, not exceeding ten minutes,
as he gives no intimation that it will ever be necessary to
continue the mixture in the heated coil beyond that length
of time.
Rapid manipulation and high heat are therefore the leading characteristics of the described process, as the great
pressure mentioned is only the consequence of the high heat,
but as the high heat is indispensable to produce the described
result, and as the vessel containing the mixture to be heated
must be closed, it is quite obvious that the vessel must be
one of very great strength, else it would prove to be a very
inconvenient one, as it would be likely to burst. Support
to that conclusion is found in the description which the inventor gives of the character of the tubes which he employs
as the vessel for heating the mixture. He employs coils of
tube for the purpose, arranged in such a manner that a considerable length of the same will occupy but a moderate
space, the coils being kept about a quarter of an inch apart
from each other. Tubes of the kind are made of iron, and
the inventor states that they are one inch in the external
diameter with a half-inch bore, incased with solid cast iron,
which also covers the outer coils or rows of tubes to the
thickness of half or three-quarters of an inch, to insure uniformity of temperature in the different parts of the coil and
to give strength to the apparatus and to protect it from injury by fire.. Much additional confirmation to the conclusion that the process of the patentee contemplates high heat
and rapid manipulation is also found in the other parts of
the specification. Evidently the inventor is of the opinion
that the op6rator must be exposed to imminent danger unless
the vessel is one of very great strength, as he states that lie
deems it prudent to test the strength of the apparatus by a
pressure of ten thousand pounds to the square inch before
taking it into use. Such a test he deems prudent before
using the vessel, but he expresses the opinion that the work-

Oct. 1873.]

MITCHELL

v.

TILGHMAIN.

Opinion of the court.-Construction of the patent.

lig pressure necessary in using the degree of heat required
will not be found to exceed two thousand pounds to the
square inch, which admission of itself is sufficient to maintain the conclusion that high heat is the agent which the inventor in his process employs to decompose the substances
subjected to the patented process. Certain substances, such
as paln oil, the invenutor represents, may be decomposed and
converted into flit-acid and glycerin under his process when
the temperature is at or below the melting-point of bismuth,
but he states that the heat in decomposing such a substance
may be raised considerably above the melting-point of lead
without any apparent injury, and lie adds that the decomposing action of the water becomes more powerful as the
heat is increased.
Considered as a whole these several considerations show
to a demonstration, in the judgment of the court, that the
invention described in the specification and embodied and
claimed in the patent is the use of great heat in the manner described to decompose the described substances when.
properly prepared, by being pulverized or broken into small
particles and mixed with water, and cause the elements of
the decomposed substances to unite with the particles of the
heated water by which the mixture is converted into fatacids and solution of glycerin. Manifestly great heat, applied in the method described, is the principal agent, but
water is an essential ingredient, as without it the product of
decomposition would be destroyed in the operation.
Evidence that the inventor contemplates that the change
in the substance shall be accomplished in a brief space of
time abounds in the specification. Ten minutes is the maxitnun time suggested that the high temperature should be
maintained while the mixture is flowing through the heated
tubes before it passes into the refrigerator, but the patentee
also states that it is important for the quickness and perfection of the decomposition that the oil and water should continue, during the passage of the emulsion through the heating tubes, in the same state of intimate mixture as they were
when the mixture was driven into the heated coil, and to that

MITCHELL V. TrLG rM

iAN.

[Sup. Ot.

Opinion of the court.-Construction of the patent.

end the inventor states that he prefers to place the series of
heating tubes in a vertical position, so that if any partial
separation takes place while the liquid passes up one tube,
the change may be corrected as the liquid passes down the
next.
Suitable means are pointed out to indicate to the operator
the state of the heat in the tubes, and for that purpose the
inventor suggests the making of certain indicators or gauges
showin(g the melting-point of certain metals and other substances, of different and known degrees of fusibility, and he
gives the series which he has used, which consist of tin, melting at 440  Fahr.; bisnfuth, 5100 Fahr.; lead, 6100 or 6120

Fahr.; nitrate of potash, 6600 Fahr.; and he describes the
mode in which such gauges may be constructed. Palm oil
will be decomposed by heat at 5100 Fahr., and the inventor
mentions that as the lowest gauge for the treatment of any
known fatty or oily substance to be subjected to the patented
process under consideration.
Ordinary fats, such as beef tallow, or the tallow of sheep,
require the heat to be raised to 6120 Fahr., which is the melting-point of lead. Mention i&made in the series set forth
in the specification of the melting-point of tin, which is 4400

Fahr., but the mention of that chemical fact was doubtless
made as a guide to the operator in carrying up the heat to

the point necessary to decompose the respective substances,
such as palm oil or the ordinary tallows, all of which require
the heat to be raised to a point higher than the melting-point
of tin.

No different conclusion can be reached, as there is nothing
in the record which gives any countenance to the theory
that the melting-point of tin, 4400 Fahr., was given as a
gauge of heat which, under the process of the patentee,

would decompose any known fatty or oily substance in such
a manner as would enable the operator to manufacture the

product described in the patent.
Substances are mentioned in the specification which, under
the described process, would require the heat to be raised to
the melting-point of bismuth and to the melting-point of

Oct. 1873.]

MITCHELL

v.

TILGHMAN.

Opinion of the court.-Construction of the patent.

lead, but the specification does not make mention of any
substance of the kind which can be decomposed as required
at the melting-point of tin, nor does it mention any one
which for the same purpose would require the heat to be
raised to the melting-point of the nitrate of potash. Probably
the former was mentioned for the guidance of the operator,
as before explained, and it may be that the latter was given
for a corresponding purpose as the maximum limit for the
operator in raising the heat to decompose such fatty and
oily substances as the ordinary beef tallow or the tallow of
sheep, which require the beat to be raised to the meltingpoint of lead in order to produce a good result under the
patented process.
Two other requirements of the specification support the
theory that high heat is the principal agent of the patented
prou:ess, and that the vessel to be used for heating the mixture must be kept closed during the process of decomposition, and be one of sufficient strength to sustain, without
bursting, an internal pressure of at least two thousand pounds
to the square inch. One is that the exit valve is required
to be so loaded that when the heating tubes are at the
desired working temperature the valve will not be opened
by the internal pressure produced by the application of the
heat to the mixture, so that when the pump is not in motion
none of the mixture will escape at the other end of the apparatus; and the other requirement is that "no steam or air
shall be allowed to accumulate in the tubes, and that the
tubes shall be kept entirely full of the mixture."
Anrgument to show that the vessel used for heating the
mixture must be kept closed is unnecessary, as the terms of
the specification expressly require it, and the patentee to
that end directs that if practicable the ends of the tubes
should be welded, and if not, that they be connected by

certain described joints to accomplish the same purpose,
evidently regarding a compliance with the requirement that
"the vessel must be closed" as an indispensable condition.
Half or one-third of the mixture to be subjected to the
patented process is water, and the condition set forth in the
VOL. XIX.

25

MITCHELL V.

TILGHMAN.

[Sup. ot.

Opinion of the court.-Construction of the patent.

specification is imperative that the vessel used for heating
the mixture must be closed, that the requisite amount of
pressure may be applied to prevent the water from being
converted into steam; and it is also an express condition
that no steam or air should be allowed to accumulate in the
tubes, for reasons which will be obvious to any who will
carefully examine the described method of producing the
described result.
Means of a mechanical character are prescribed in the specification for intermingling the fat and the water into what
is called an emulsion, which is the mixture to be subjected
to the patented process, but the difference between such an
intermingling of one substance with another, which may be
accomplished by a stirrer or by the churning process, and the
actual union produced by chemical affinity between two or
more substances, is as wide as one thing well can be from
another. Such an intermingling of fat with water does not
work any chemical change in either substance, as it creates
at best but a temporary affinity. Consequently the water,
if the mixture is left for a sufficient length of time undisturbed by the stirrer or piston, will separate from the particles of flit and settle at the bottom. Widely different resuilts flow from chemical affinity, as such an affinity will
produce a new and distinct substance, uniting, it may be,
the constituents or properties in whole or in part of substances as different as fat and water.
Fats consist of several constituents closely united in indefinite proportions, of which olein, margarin, and stearin
are the only ones usually recognized and defined by chemists;
the former constituting the oily and the two latter the solid
principle of the united substance.*
These constituents or elements are held together by chemical affinity, the consistency of the united substance depending upon the respective proportions of the constituent parts.
High heat will overcome the affinity by which the constitucuts are united and decompose the substance. Diffbrent
* 1 Regnault's Chemistry,

1592.

Oct. 1873.]

MITCHELL V.

TILGIDIAN.

Opinion of the court.-Construction of the patent.

kinds of fat, however, require different degrees of heat to
effect the decomposition of the united substance, varying in
intensity from 5100 Fahr., the melting-point of bismuth, to
610' or 6120 Fair., the melting-point of lead, which are the
very temperatures mentioned as required in the specification
of the complainant's patent. But it should be remarked in
this connection that the decomposition of such a substance
by heat alone will not produce fiat-acids or solution of glycerin.*
Free fat-acids and solution of glycerin are what the patentee promises as the result of a proper application of the
patented process. Those acids, it is conceded, are oleate,
margarate, and stearate, which, it is claimed, the process will
produce, together with the solution of glycerin, but it is
clear that heat alone will not produce either of those fitacids or the solution of glycerin, as the three acids and the
glycerin are chemically combined in the original substance
with the oxide of glyceryl as an acidifying base. Temperatures such as described will decompose the fat, but unless
some chemical agent, such as water, lime, soda or potash, is
present to take the place of the oxide of glyceryl to acidify
the olein, the margarin, and the stearin, or to oxidize the
said several constituents and to convert the same into oxide
of olein, margarin, and stearin, neither of the fat-acids required, to wit, oleate, margarate, or stearate, can be obtained
from the decomposition of fits by heat, as the oxide of
glyceryl, which was their base in the original substance, is
separated by the act of decomposition; nor is it possible,
unless water or its equivalent be present when decomposition takes place, to obtain solution of glycerin, for reasons
equally conclusive though somewhat dissimilar in the chemical sense, as the presence of water or its equivalent is required in the latter case to hydrate the glyceryl and convert
the same into the solution of glycerin. Without the presence of water or its equivalent constituents neither the fatacids mentioned nor solution of glycerin will be obtained
* Tuner's Chemistry, by Johnston, 8th edition, p. 456.

MITCHELL

v.

TILGHMAN.

[Sup. (It.

Opinion of the court.-Construction of the patent.

by heat, hut with it the three fat-acids mentioned and solu.
tion of glycerin will be produced if the operator complies
with all the other conditions described in the specification.*
Viewed in the light of these suggestions, as the question
should be, it is quite clear that the two conditions last named,
to wit, that the beating vessel must be kept entirely full of
the mixture and that no steam or air must be allowed to accumulate in the vessel employed to impart the heat, are
material and indispensable conditions of the patented method
of producing fat-acids and solution of glycerin from the described substances, as without a compliance with those requirements there might not, and probably would not, be
present when decomposition takes place any equivalent of a
base to take the place of the oxide of glyceryl and to unite
with the olcin, margarin, and stearin to convert the same,
into the three fat-acids known as oleate, margarate, and
stearate. These three constituents in the fat, to wit, olein,,
margarin, and stearin, are combined with the oxide of glyc-"
eryl as a base, and when decomposition is effected under
the influence of heat, some chemical agent, such as water
or its equivalent must be present, which can take the place:
of the oxide of glyceryl to change the three constituents of
fatjust numed into the oxides of olein, of margarin, and of
stearin.t
Some chemical agent must also be present to take the
place of the constituent which was combined with the glyceryl to produce the solution of glycerin, as represented in
the specification ; and it does not appear to be controverted
that in all methods lieretofhre practiced water or its equivalent has always been present for such purpose, and it is
manifest that the requirement that water or its equivalent
shall'be liresent to accomplish that purpose, in the speciflcation, is an indispensable condition, as the new substance
would otherwise be destroyed by the operation, which requirement cannot be fulfilled unless the vessel is kept
* Silliman's Chemistry, 25th edition, p. 441.

" 3 Miller's Chemistry, 370,
edition, 379.

1141; 2 Ure's Chemical Dictionary, 5th

Oct. 1873.]

MITCHELL V.

TILGHMAN.

Opinion of the court.-Construction of the patent.

entirely full of the mixture, as otherwise steam and air will
accumulate and fill the vacuum.
Water must be present in the mixture to furnish the requi.
site constituent to unite with the olein, margarin, and stearin,
and to oxidize the same, else it will be impossible to obtain
the described fit-acids; and the presence of water in the
mixture when the decomposition takes place is also equally
inidispensable to furnish the requisite constituent to take the
place of the oxide evolved by the operation from the glyceryl
and to unite with the other constituents of the same to produce solution of glycerin, which the specification alleges is
one of the results to be obtained from the decomposition in
the method therein described. Unless water or its equivalent be present to furnish such constituent to take the place
of the oxide evolved from the glyceryl, the same heat that
separates the glyceryl from the other constituents of the fat
in the mixture will convert the same into acrolein, which is
an offensive substance destitute of any useful quality, or, in
other words, the glyceryl will be converted into a substance
which is neither new nor useful, and of course the process
to obtain it would not be the proper subject of a patent.*
Nothing provided in the patent or suggested by the patentee will secure the presence of water when decomposition
takes place, unless the vessel be closed and be kept entirely
full of the mixture, as otherwise the water will be converted
into steam, and steam and air will accumulate in, the heating
vessel. No means are described or suggested to add water
to the mixture after the mixture is forced into the heating
vessel, and it is plain that nothing of the kind can be successfully accomplished without some material change in the
apparatus.
Beyond all doubt the conditions mentioned appertain to
the described method patented by the complainant for producing fat-acids and solution of glycerin from fatty and oily
substances of animal and vegetable origin, which contain
2 Watts's Chemical Dictionary, 894; Attfield's Chemistry, 394; Silli.
man's Chemistry, 25th edition, p. 44. . 763.

MITCHELL V.

TILGHMAN.

[Slip. Ct.

Opinion of the court.-Orginality.

glyceryl as their base, but it is equally clear that the patentee
does not claim the described apparatus as any part of his
invention, and that lie is not the original and first inventor
or discoverer of the scientific truth that such 1its as beef
tallow and palm oil may be decomposed by heat or by heat
and water combined, nor of the scientific truth that fat-acids
of commercial value may be obtained from such substances
as tallow and palm oil by means of heat or by heat and
water.
Power to issue letters-patent is conferred upon the commissioner of patents, and inasmuch as such grants are executed by public authority and in pursuance of an act of
Congress, the rule is that the patent, when introduced in
evidence by the complaining party in a suit for infringement,
affords a prim 6 facie presumption that the patentee is the
original and first inventor of what is therein described and
claimed as his invention. Application fbr a patent is required to be made to the commissioner appointed under
authority of law, and inasmuch as that officer is empowered
to decide upon the merits of the application, his decision in
granting the patent is presumed to be correct.*
Sufficient has already been remarked to show what the
alleged invention is as construed and defined by the court.
Having ascertained that matter, the next inquiry is, whether
the complainant is the original and first inventor of the improvement?
1. Persons seeking redress for the unlawful use of patented
inventions must allege and prove that they are the original
and first inventors of the same, and that the party defendant
is guilty of the alleged infringement. In the first place, the
burden to establish both of those allegations is upon the
party instituting the suit, but the rule, as before explained,
is that where the complainant or plaintiff introduces the
patent in evidence, if it is in due form, it affords a prim6
facie presumption of its correctness, which, in the absence
* Agawam Co. v. Jordan, 7 Wallace, 597.

Oct. 1873.]

MITCHELL V.

TILGHMAN.

Opinion of the court.-Originality.

of opposing proof, will entitle the complaining party to relief. Availing himself of that rule the complainant introduced his patent in evidence, which is sufficient to show that
he is the original and first inventor of his improvement, a
construed and defined by the court, unless sufficient evidence
to overcome that presumption and to establish the contrary
allegation of the answer is exhibited in the record.*
Whether tested by the language of the claim or by that
of the patent, or by the language embodied in the two introductory sentences of the specification, it is equally clear that
the patentee, at the time the patent was granted, did not
pretend that he was the original and first inventor or discoverer of the scientific truth that high heat or water heated
to a high temperature would decompose such fatty and oily
substances as those mentioned in the specification of his
patent, and the evidence in the record shows that such a
pretence, if it had been made, could not have been supported
for a moment.
Opposed to that proposition it is suggested that the patentee claims "the manufacturing of fat-acids and glycerin
from fatty substances by the action of water at a high temperature and pressure," which must be admitted subject to
the universal qualification that the legal construction of every
such claim is that the patentee means to limit the same to
his described method or process; or, if it be a machine, to
his described means of obtaining or of accomplishing the
described result. Usually the claim contains the words as
described or substantially as described, or words of like import, which are everywhere understood as referring back to
the descriptive parts of the specification. Words of such
import, if not expressed in the claim, must be implied, else
the patent in many cases would be invalid as covering a
mere function, principle, or result, which is obviously forbidden by the patent law, as it would close the door to all
eubsequent improvements.t
* Seymour v. Osborn, 11 Wallace, 538.

lb. 547; Ourtis on Patents,

242.

MITCHELL V. TILGHMAN.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.-Originality.

Doubtless, an invention may be good though the subject
of it consists in the discovery of some principle of science
or property of matter, never before known or used, by which
some new and useful result is obtained, and such an invention or discovery may be the subject of a valid patent without including in the claim any new arrangement of machinery to accomplish the object, provided the inventor
describes, as required in the patent law, the method, process, or means of applying the invention to practical use and
of obtaining the described new and useful result.*
Limited, as explained by reference back to the descriptive
parts of the specification, the claim may well be regarded as
in due form, but it is quite clear that it would be invalid if
it is not so limited, as it has always been held that a patent
embraces nothing more than the improvement described
and claimed as new, and that any one who afterwards discovers a method of accomplishing the same object, substantially and essentially differing from the one described, has a
right to use it and to vend it to others to be used.t
Apply that rule and it is clear that the invention must be
limited to the described method of producing free fat-acids
and solution of glycerin from the fatty and oily substances
therein mentioned, as the patent states that the patentee
alleges that he has invented a new and useful improvement
in processes for purifying such fatty and oily substances, and
the opening sentence of the specification describes the invention as a new and improved mode of treating fatty and oily
substances, and the patentee, in describing his invention,
states that it consists of a process for producing free fit-acids
and solution of glycerin from such fatty and oily substances
as are therein particularly described, and there is not a word
either in the specification or claim of the patent to warrant
the conclusion that the patentee or the commissioner 'of
patents, at the time the patent was granted, regarded the
patentee as the original and first inventor or discoverer of
Househill Co. v. Neilson, I Webster's Patent Cases, 683; Curtis on
Patents, 4th edition, 279; Foote v. Silsby, 2 Blatchford, 260.
t O'Reilly v. Morse, 15 Howard, 119; Curtis on Patents, 4th edition, 163.

Oct. 1873.]

MITCHELL

v.

TILGHMAN.

Opinion of the coart.-Originality.

the scientific truth that such fatty and oily substances may
be decomposed by high heat or water heated to a high temperature.
Unquestionably the method or process embodied in the
patent includes high heat and rapid manipulation, but the
patentee is not the original and first inventor of the scientific
truth that heat or water at high temperature will decompose
such fatty and oily substances as those mentioned in the
specification. Different gauges of heat to be employed in
applying his process are certainly given in the specification,
as befbre explained, but it is a great mistake to suppose that
the gauge for decomposing such fats as beef tallow or the
tallow of sheep admits of any variation except what is authorized by the word "about," or that the gauge given for decomposing palm oil may be varied from the melting-point
of bismuth, except so far as the authority to diminish the
temperature may be inferred from the words "at or below,"
which words, when properly construed, mean substantially
the same thing as the word about, when the latter is used
to qualify the temperature designated as the melting-point
of lead.
Attempt is made in argument to show that the respective
gauges given in the specification to specify the required
degree of heat are subject to a much wider variation, and
that the patentee did not intend to require that the mixture
should be exposed to any higher temperature than that
which should prove to be requisite to accomplish the described result. Suppose that could be admitted, still it is
not probable that the admission would much vary the case
if the apparatus employed should not be changed, and all
the conditions for applying the process should remain in full
force, as rapid manipulation is an express condition in applying the process of decomposition, which, it is believed, cannot be accomplished in the time allowed unless the high
temperature is maintained.
Support to the theory that the gauges given admit of h
wider variation than is here supposed is attempted to be
drawn from the sentence in the specification which im.

MITCHELL

v.

TILGHMAN.

[Sup. CL.

Opinion of the court.-Originality.

mediately follows the statement that the decomposition of
the water becomes more powerful as the heat is increased.
Fatty matters such as palm oil, says the patentee, may be
changed into fat-acids and glycerin at or below the melting
point of bismuth, but he states in the same connection that
the heat in such a case has been carried considerably above
the melting-point of lead without any apparent injury; and
he adds that the decomposing action of water becomes more
powerful as the heat is increased. Then follows the sentence
which is invoked as supporting the theory that the gauges
of heat given in the specification, to wit, the melting-point
of hismnth and the melting-point of lead, are subject to indefinite variation.
By starting the apparatus at a low heat, says the patentee,
and gradually increasing it, the temperature giving products
most suitable to the intended application of the fatty substance employed, call easily be determined. Evidently the
sentence should be examined in the light of the context, and
when so examined it is quite clear that the patentee never
intended to employ the language in any such sense as that
which the complainant ascribes to it, as he was speaking of
palm oil, which is decomposed at the melting-point of bisrnuth, and had just remarked that the heat, in applying the
process to that substance, had been carried considerably
above the melting-point of lead without any apparent injury.
Water, said the patentee, becomes more powerful to decompose such substances as the heat is increased, and then
adds, as a precaution to the operator, not to carry it too
high above the gauges given. You can easily determine
what is best in any given case by starting the apparatus at
a low heat and gradually increasing it to the gauge given or
above, as may appear to be best from the particular substance subjected to the process and the quality of the product obtained by the operation. Not an intimation is given
in the sentence that any less heat will accomplish the purpose than that indicated by the gauges mentioned in the
specification. On the contrary, the language employed, if it

Oct. 1873.]

MITCHELL V. TILGHMAN.

Opinion of the court.-Praticalness-General remarks on.

warrants any substantial variation friom the prescribed -a uges,
justifies the inference that the beat may be increased above
the temperatures mentioned rather than diminished.
High temperature and pressure are among the leading
characteristics of the invention, as appears from the claim
and every part of the specification. Doubtful expressions
may be subject to construction, but where the language employed is clear and unambiguous it must speak its own construction in the specification of a patent as well as in any
other grant issued by public authority. Intention in every
case, it may be admitted, is the primary rule of construction,
but language invoked to support a particular theory must
be such as is fit, when it is compared with the whole instruinent, to express the imputed intention, else the theory in
question cannot be supported, as courts or justice cannot
legislate nor can they add to a grant or contract any stipulation or condition which it does not contain. Consequently,
the theory or the complainant that the sentence under consideration warrants the conclusion that the claim of the
patent includes low as well as high heat must be overruled.*
Additional observations respecting the apparatus employed by the patentee are unnecessary, as lie expressly states
that lie does not intend to claim it as any part of his invention. Enough has already been remarked also to show what
is the nature and scope of the invention and to point out
what the question is which is involved in the first issue preselte(l in tile p)leadings. Construed and defined as explaited,
the first issue respecting the patent must be found for the
complai nallt, as the proofs in the record bearing upon the
question of novelty are not sufficient to overcome the prima
facie presumption that the patentee is the original and first
inventor of what is described in the patent as his invention.j
2. Grant all that, still it is insisted by the respondent that
Green v. Wood, 7 Queen's Bench, 178; Potter's Dwarri., 199-200.
t Railroad Co. v. Stimpson, 14 Peters, 458; Curtis on Patents, 4th edition,
1472.

MITCHELL V.

TILGHMAN.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.-Pratialness--General remarks on.

the result described in the specification and claim of the
patent cannot be accomplished so as to be practically useful
by the method and apparatus described in the specification.
Whoever discovers that a certain useful result will be
produced in any art, machine, manufacture, or composition
of matter by the use of certain means is entitled to a patent
for his invention, provided he specifies the means he uses in
a manner so full and exact that any one skilled in the science to which it appertains can, by using the means he specifies, without any addition to or subtraction from the described means, produce precisely the result he describes.
Such description must be correct, as it is settled law that
the patent is void if the described result cannot be obtained
by the described means.*
Nor does it make any difference whether the effect is produced by mechanical principles or by chemical agency or by
the application of discoveries in natural science, as in either
case the requirement of the act of Congress is imperative
that the patentee must describe the method, process, or
means he employs in full, clear, and exact terms, and the
end which the invention accomplishes.
Inventions, in order that they may be the proper subjects
of letters-patent, must be new and useful. Utility in most
cases is a question of fact, as it usually depends upon the
evidence resulting from actual experiment. There are two
modes, says Mr. Curtis, in which the utility of an invention
may be impeached, the second of which is where it appears
that it is not capable of being used to effect the object proposed, which is the question presented in the second defence
set up by the respondent.t
Oases arise also, even where the means described will ac
complish the described result, when it cannot be held that
the invention is useful if it appears that the operater, in
using the described means, is constantly exposed to immi
neat danger, either friom the explosive tendency of the sub
O'Reilly v. Morse, 15 Howard, 119; Curtis on Patents, 189.
- Curtis on Patents, 4th edition, 449.

Oct. 1873.]

MITCHELL

v.

TILGHMAN.

Opinion of the court -Practicalness-General

remarks on.

stance to be used or from the liability of the vessel to burst
which is required to be employed as means of accomplishing
the patented result. Where the patentee finds it necessary
to employ any such dangerous means to accomplish the described end it cannot be held that his invention is useful,
within the meaning of the patent law, even though it appears that the operator, when no such disaster happens, may
be able to work out the described result by the described
means, as it is quite clear that Congress, in making provision to secure to inventors the exclusive right to their discoveries, never intended to promote any such as were in
their nature constantly dangerous to the operator in employing the described means to accomplish the described result.*
Apply these rules and it follows that neither an invention
which will not enable the operator to accomplish the described result nor one which constantly exposes the operator
to the loss of his life or to great bodily harm can be regarded
as useful within the meaning of the patent law.
Patents were granted to the supposed inventor by the
proper public authorities in England, France, and Belgium,
as well as by the proper public authorities in the United
States, but the respondent insists that the described result
cannot be obtained by the means and in the mode of operation described in the specification, and that the invention
has never been reduced to practice by the use of those means
or in that mode of operation, either in the United States or
in any one of the foreign countries where the same has been
patented.
Both branches of the proposition are controverted by the
complainant fnd many depositions and other proofs upon
the subject were introduced at the hearing. Wituesses
were examined by the complainant to prove the affirmative
of tle issue, bu t none of them appear to sustain his views in
that behalf unless the scope of the invention is extended
beyond the meanis and mode of operation described in the
specification as construed and defined by the court. Proofs
* Curtis on Patents, 4th edition, f 106 and 449.

MITCHELL

v.

TILGHMAN.

[Sup. Ot.

6tatement of the case.-Practicalness-Testimony of 0. T. Jones.

of the kind, if they exist, could easily have been procured,
a. both the complainant and his brother, who acted as his
agent in efforts to introduce the invention in the United
States, were examined as witnesses in the case.
Licenses were given by the complainant in some instances,
and lie called Charles T. Jones, one of his licensees, to prove
the affirmative of the issue under consideration. It appears
by his deposition* that he became a member of a certain firm
in 1849, and that the firm were engaged in the manufacture
or candles; that they first used the process of saponification
with about fourteen per cent. of lime in an open vessel;
that they decomposed the lime soap thus obtained by sulphuric acid, using for that purpose two and a half pounds
of sulphuric acid to each pound of lime; that they continued
to use that process until the fall of 1859, when they introduced the process of saponification under pressure of about
one hundred and thirty pounds to the square inch, with only
six or seven per cent. of lime and with a corresponding
diminution of sulphuric acid. Subsequently they abandoned
the second process used by them and introduced another,
which the witness calls the process of the complainant.
On cross-examination he was asked whether water was
not used in their first process and whether lie ever knew
any process by which fats were decomposed into fat-acids
and a solution of glycerin without the intervention of water;
to which he answered, water was used in the first process
described, but in quantities only slightly in excess of that
requisite for preparing the milk of lime; and he added
that lie did not know that the decomposition or neutral fats
into fat-acids and a solutioiD of glycerin had ever been accomplished without the intervention of water.
Counsel for the respondent also requested the witness to
describe the process used by his firim which he calls the
complainant's process. His answer is, in substance and
effect, as follows: He places the melted fat to be treated
in a large vessel with a quantity of" water equal at least to
-See

supra,p. 321.-r.

Oct. 1873.].

O

ITCHELL V. TILGHMAN.

Statement of the case.-Practicalness-Testimony of C. T. Jones.

one-half the bulk or weight of the fat, and subjects the
melted fat and water to a steam pressure of three hundred
pounds to the square inch for a period of about five hours,
keeping the water and fat in intimate contact by pumping
the water from the bottom to the top of the vessel and discharging it on the upper surface of the fat, in order that
the water may make its way to the bottom of the same;
to which he added that he preferred to use half of one per
cent. of lime, for the reason, as lie states, that that quantity
of alkali enables him to perfect the decomposition in four
hours at a pressure of two hundred and fifty pounds to the
square inch with material economy of fuel and of wear and
tear of machinery; and he states that since ascertaining
the advantages of the lime he has adhered to that mode of
operation.
Responsive to another question he states that the apparatus was first put in operation, under the superintendence
of the complainant, in September, 1863; that the vessel
used was manufactured in Philadelphia; that it comprises a
tube thirty-eight feet in length and thirty-eight inches in
the internal diameter; that it is made of iron plates of the
thickness of a half inch, and a copper tube of nearly the
same length, thirty-five inches in diameter, which is placed
inside of the iron tube so as to leave an annular space of
about one and a half inches between the copper and the
iron vessel, whose estimated capacity is about ten thousand
pounds of oil and water, but the quantity of fat usually put
into the vessel at one time is about six thousand pounds,
with about four thousand pounds of water, all of which is
placed in the copper vessel, which serves to fill the vessel
within three feet of the head or top; and lie states that
,vheu the decomposition is perfected the water holding the
glycerin in solution and the fat-acids are discharged into
their respective receptacles.
Two vessels are used instead of one, as directed in the
specification, because iron is cheaper than copper, and to
secure greater strength to resist the requisite pressure and
to save the iron from contact with the fat-acids, which dis.

400

MITCHELL V. TILGHMAN.
Statement of the case. -Practicalness-Testimony

. [Sup. Ct.
of C. T. Jones.

colors the product and rapidly corr'odes the iron to such an
extent that it will soon render the vessel unfit for use.
Satisfactory products, as the witness states, may be obtained by the process without lime, though he adheres to
the statement that he prefers to use it in order to diminish
the pressure which would otherwise be required, and for the
economy which it effects in fuel, labor, and time, but he
states without any qualification that no one in their manufactory ever mixed any fatty or oily substance with water,
in the proportions given in the complainant's specification,
and placed the mixture in any vessel in which it could be
heated to the melting-point of lead until the operation was
completed and thereby obtain free fat-acids and solution of
glycerin.
Even without any discussion it is obvious that the means
and mode of operation practiced by the witness are widely
difierent from the method or process described in the specification of the complainant's patent. Instead of working
in a vessel entirely full of the fat and water and under a
pressure sufficient to prevent the presence of steam, the
operation under the process of the witness is performed in
a vessel only partly filled, which is open at the upper end
and inclosed in another vessel, and the heat is applied by
the introduction of steam from boilers outside. Other differences also exist, as for example, instead of being worked
at a temperature of 5100 or 612' Fahr., and in a vessel
capable of sustaining an internal pressure of two thousand
pounds to the square inch, the process of the witness is
worked at a temperature represented by a pressure of only
three hundred pounds to the square inch, which is a latitude
of deviation not warranted by any language to be found in
the complainant's specification.
Two other differences may also be mentioned, which are
equally persuasive, to show that the method or process
practiced by the witness is substantially different from that
embodied in the patent of the complainant. Instead of the
fat and the water being maintained during the entire operation in a state of intimate mechanical mixture, as required

Oct. 1873.]

O

ITCHELL V.

TILGHMAN.

Opinion of the court.-Practicalness-Testimony of the Ropeses.

in the specification, a pump is provided, not to force the
mixture into the heating vessel, but to be kept constantly at

work to draw the water from the bottom of the vessel and
of fat, in order that it
to discethe charge
may percolate down through the fat and supply the deficiency occasioned by the fact that the water is constantly
being converted into steam.
Ten minutes is the maximum time allowed for the operation in the complainant's specification, but the method or
process employed by the witness, instead of effecting the
decomposition in ten minutes, requires at least four or five
hours, even when he uses a small proportion of lime to
assist the chemical action of the heated water.
Besides the differences between the two methods already
pointed out, there are others which may be suggested,
equally striking and of a character equally persuasive, to
show that the two methods are substantially different, as
for example, the apparatus employed by the witness consists
of two vertical cylinders, one within another, instead of a
coil of tubing, with an annular space between the two, as
before explained, of an inch and a half.
Fat and water in nearly equal proportions are charged
into the inner cylinder, leaving a vacant space at the top of
the same of about three feet. Like the coil of tube the
outer cylinder is steani-tight, but the inner one is open at
the top. Steam for the operation is generated in two separate boilers, which is introduced through the top of the
outer cylinder to the space between the two and through
the upper end of the inner one, which is open, to facilitate
the circulation of the steam, in order that the fat and water
in the inner cylinder may be heated to the temperature represented by a pressure of two hundred and fifty to three
hundred pounds to the square inch; and the witness testified that he regarded the use of the pump and the use of
some lime as essential to the use of the apparatus with the
greatest economy.

Licensees of the complainant were also examined by the
VOL. XIX.

26

MITCHELL V.

TILGHMAN.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.-Fracticalness-Testimony of the Ropeses.

respondent, to wit: Nathaniel Ropes and Nathaniel Ropes,
Jr.* These witnesses have had great experience in manufacturing candles, and they testify that they know of no
place in this country where candles or soap are manufactured from free fat-acids produced by water alone at high
temperature and pressure without the use of alkali. They
both describe the old saponifying process as consisting in
the treatment of fat by water heated in an open vessel, lime
being mixed with the water, by which the glycerin was
separated from the other constituents of the fat, leaving
what some manufactures call lime soap, or fat-acids and
lime, which latter ingredient was afterwards removed by
sulphuric acid, the residuum being free fat-acids.
Changes were made in their mode of operation early in
the year 1860, which alterations were introduced to them by
the brother of the complainant, who experimented in their
manufactory several months before he put the apparatus
adopted in operation. By that plan they use water in equal
proportions with the fat, with a half per cent. of lime and
double that quantity of sulphuric acid, the whole being
heated to a temperature representing a pressure of about one
hundred and fifty pounds to the square inch in a closed vessel for twelve houirs. Formerly they conducted the operation in open tubs, using thirteen per cent. of lime with
double that quantity of sulphuric acid, but since the new
method was introduced by the agent of the complainant
they have substituted closed copper tanks in the place of the
open tubs, using, however, the same agents to effect the decomposition of the fatty substances, though in different proportions.
Copper tanks are used as receptacles for the fat and the
water, but the steam to communicate the heat is generated
in a large iron boiler thirty feet in length and forty inches
in diameter, with which the copper tank is connected by
means of steam pipes furnished with stop-cocks as regulators in the use of the steam. There is also a shaft in the
* Supra, pp. 336-341.-REP.

Oct. 1873.]

MITCHELL

v.

TILGHMAN.

Opinion of the court -Practicalness-Testimony

of the Ropeses.

tank: having radial arms, which shaft is kept in rotation to
cause and preserve an intimate mechanical mixture of the
fat and the water (luring the whole operation.
Instead of having the tank constantly filled with the fat
and water the fact is that it is never filled, nor is the mixture kept under a pressure sufficient to prevent the accumulation of steam and air, as directed in the specification
of the patent described in the bill of complaint. Empty
space is left in the tank above the fiat and water at the outset sufficient to allow boiling, which space of course would
be filled with steam and air. Heat is communicated to the
mixture by introducing steam from the large iron boiler
into the copper tank, creating a temperature causing a pressure of one hundred and fifty pounds to the square inch.
Several months were employed in making the experiments
before the method now in use was finally put in practice by
the complainant's agent. He tried it without lime at a pressure of two hundred pounds, allowing twenty-four hours for
the operation, but the result was not satisfactory. Dismissing that method he next tried the experiment with fat and
water in the proportion .of two to one, allowing twenty
hours; still the result was unsatisfactory. Next he tried the
compound of fat and water in equal proportions, using only
half of the water during the first part of the operation, then
discharging that and putting into the charge the other half
of the water, and he found that the operation produced a
good result in twelve hours. Some of the experiments were
without lime, but the witnesses state that inasmuch as they
found that by the addition of lime they could accomplish
the work at a pressure of one hundred and fifty pounds to
the square inch and in less time, they have ever since continued the use of lime in their business.
Much discussion of the process introduced on that occasion is unnecessary, as it appears that instead of working at
a heat equal to the melting-point of lead, in a vessel capable
of sustaining an internal pressure of two thousand pounds,
these licensees of the coniplainant use a certain per cent. of
lime at a pressure not much above one hundred and fifty

MITCHELL

v.

TILGHMAN.

.[Sup.

Ct.

Opinion of the court.-Practicalness-Letter to Erry & Son.

pounds; and it appears that they decompose the fat in a
vessel not filled with the mixture, nor provided with a mechanical stirrer, and leave a vacant space in the vessel sufficient for circulation, in which steam is not only generated
but is introduced from a separate boiler. Differences such
as these require no comment except to say that the method
is entirely different from that described in the patent in
question, and to add that it corresponds much more nearly
to the method described in a patent dated May 15th, 1860,
subsequently obtained by the complainant, and which was
introduced in evidence by the respondent.
. Reasons exist besides those disclosed in the testimony of
those witnesses to support the conclusion that the complainant nover supposed that his patent conferred the exclusive
right to use temperatures and pressure to decompose fits
with water alone much below the gauges given in his specification, and that lie had come to doubt, several years before
those experiments were made, whether the patented method
or process could be accomplished so as to be practically useful by the means and in the mode. of operation pointed out
in the patent.
His letter, dated London, June 25th, 1856, addressed to a
certain firm in Cincinnati,* affords strong support to that
conclusion, ii, which he states that our experiments in. the
factories here and in Paris have shown that on the large
scale the decomposition of fats by water is more conveniently effected by modifying the apparatus originally proposed so that the fat and water are exposed to a comparatively lower heat and pressure for a longer time, instead of
a very high pressure for a few minutes. By which means
he suggests in the same letter that a considerable quantity
of" material may be treated at one charge in an ordinary
steam-boiler lined with lead or copper, and may be provided
with an agitator in the place of using the continuously
working pump and coil of pipe, and the suggestion is that
Supra, p. 344.-REP.

Oct. 1873.]

MITCHELL V.

TILGHMAN.

Opinion of the court.-Practicalness-Payment of 1000.

at a pressure of two hundred and twenty-five pounds to the
square inch tallow, palm oil, or lard stearin may be completely decomposed in five hours.
Nearly two years before the date of fhat letter, to wit, on
the twenty-fifth of March, 1854, the complainant took out it
patent in England for the same invention as that described
in the patent in issue in this case, and the proofs show that
he made various efforts to introduce it into practice in that
country. He remained there, it seems, from 1854 to 1859,
and it appears that in June, 1854, he exhibited his process
in the old form to George F. Wilson, the managing director
of the Price Patent Candle Company, and the company entered into a contract with the complainant respecting the
same, by which he assigned the said letters-patent and the
privileges thereby granted to the said company, and that
the said company, in consideration of the assignment, covenanted to pay him an annuity of one thousand pounds sterling from the month of October of the following year during
the continuance of the patent, subject to various conditions,
and among others to be terminated by giving notice to the
complainant as therein provided; the company were also to
have the use of several other patents therein described,
which have since expired.
Proofs were also exhibited showing that the said company
have ever since paid the stipulated annuity, but there is no
satis ctory evidence in the case to show that they have ever
applied the process to produce fat-acids and solution of
glycerin by the means and in the mode of operation described in the specification, as construed and defined by this
court. Some use, it may be presumed, has been made of
the patent by the assignees, but what that use is does not
very satisfactorily appear. It does appear, however, from a
paper read before the British Association, in September,
1855, by the general director of the company, to whom the
complainant testifies that he exhibited his process the year
previous, that he stated that in our new process the only
chemical agents employed for lecomposing the neutral fat
and for separating its glycerin are steim and heat, and that

MITCHELL V. TILGHMAN.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.-Practicalness-Experiments at Mlonier's.

the only agents used in purifying the glycerin thus obtained
are heat and steam.*
Strong confirmation of that is also derived from a paper
read by the same parson at a session of the Society of Arts,
held in that country, January 25th, 1856, also put in evidence by the complainant,t in which the author says, in
speaking of the patented process, "It has yet to be proved
how far it can compete successfully with distillation," adding
that they had made an arrangement with the inventor which,
as he expresses himself, will give then the means of testing
its commercial merits, and then he proceeds to state that on
witnessing a trial of the process in the small tube apparatus,
it struck him that steam passed into the fat at a high temperature should effect by a gentle process what the patentee
aimed at efiecting by a violent process, to wit, the resolving
of the neutral.fat into glycerin and fat-acids; finally stating
that they had proved that the fact was so and that the glyc.
erin distilled over with the fat-acids though it was no longer
combined with those products, evidently showing that the
process employed by them was at that time widely different
from that claimed by the complainant.
Application for a patent was also made by the complainant to the proper authorities of France during the same year,
and it appears that the application was successful, as he immediately commenced negotiations through his patent agent
with the firm of Monier & Co., doing business near Paris in
that empire, for the sale of the patent, which negotiations
resulted in a contract of sale. Pursuant to that contract he
transferred the patent to that firm subject to the condition
that the process would effect the results promised by the
grantor.
Numerous experiments were subsequently made under
the superintendence of the patentee or his brother, for a
period of six months, all of which produced results which
the evidence shows were entirely useless. They were made
in the first place, as the senior partner of the firm states,t
-x Supra, p. 345.-REP.
$ Supra, pp. 345-348.-REP.

t Supra, pp. 344, 345, 350.-REP.

Oct. 1873.]

MITCHELL V.

TILGHMAN.

Opinion of the court.-Practicalness-Experiments at Monier's.

by means of a small apparatus brought from London by the
patentee, which consisted of a hollow iron tube of serpentine form, incased in a cast-iron block from which the two
ends of the tube projected-one for receiving the fatty substance used in the experiments for decomposing the same,
and the other for discharging the product.
High heat was required for the purpose, and with that
view the apparatus was so placed in a furnace constructed
of fire-proof bricks that it received all the heat, the flames
of which completely enveloped it, and which brought it to
an excessive heat, but the witness cannot give the degree of
heat, as the apparatus did not contain any gauge to indicate
its intensity.
Fatty matter and water were put in a vessel prepared for
the purpose, which was provided with a bronze suction and
force pump worked by hand, and connected with one end
of the iron coil projecting from the cast-iron block, by which
the mixture of fatty matter and water was drawn from the
receptacle and was fbrced into and through the iron coil of
tube, as the same was incased in the iron block, and out at
the opposite end of the same, where it was discharged into
another receptacle prepared for the purpose. By means of
the furnace the iron tube and the block in which the coil
was incased were "heated to an excessive degree," estimated by the witness to exceed 500' Fahr. with an estimated
pressure of more than twenty atmospheres. Both the patentee and his brother worked at the experiments ten or fifteen days, but the decomposition of the fatty matter, as the
witness states, was never complete, and that they never produced fat-acids and glycerin, the product being only an altered fatty matter, which, when washed, showed acrolein to
such an extent as to fatigue the workmen who assisted at
the experiments. Fifteen of the experiments were made by
the patentee aided by two workmen, in the presence of the
witness, and he states, without qualification, that none of
the experiments succeeded.
Three new apparatuses were subsequently constructed by
the brother of the patentee, acting as his agent. Two were

MITCHLL V.

TILGHMAN.

[Sup. Ct,

Opinion of the court.-Practicalness-Return to America.

constructed in Paris and one in London. Experiments
were subsequently made by the brother of the patentee, and
in some instances without any regard to the patented process, the aim being to find out if possible the means of overcoming the difficulties manifested in the prior attempts to
produce the promised results.
None of his effbrts, however, succeeded, though the experiments were continued until the expenditure exceeded
forty thousand francs, and it appearing that fat-acids and
glycerin could not be produced by the process, the contract
was annulled, and the witness affirms that it is impossible
to decompose fatty matter and obtain fat-acids and glycerin
by the method indicated in the complainant's patent. He
admits, however, that his firm were subsequently induced,
on the return of the patentee to that country, to join with
another firm engaged in manufacturing candles, to make a
new contract with the same party upon the same basis as
the first contract, it being represented that the patentee
would introduce a new process, based upon the principles
of the patented method, which promised certain success and
admirable results. Such a contract was accordingly made,
and new experiments were prosecuted for a period of two or
three months, but, like the first efforts in that direction, the
experiments failed to produce either fat-acids or glycerin.
How much these last experiments cost, the witness does
not state, but he does state that the experiments were productive of no good, as they produced neither fat-acids nor
glycerin.
Remarks respecting the Belgium patent are unnecessary,
as no proof was offered to show that the process was ever
introduced into practice in that country.
Having failed to accomplish such results in those countries as would show that his process would be practically
useful if applied by the means and in the mode of operation
described in the specification, and probably having become
convinced that the decomposition of fats by water could be
more conveniently effected by modifying the described apparatus so that the fat and water would be exposed to a lower

Oct. 1873.

MITCHELL V. TILGHMAN.

Opinion of the court.-Practiealness-Report of Paris jury.

beat and pressure for a longer time, as expressed in his
letter of the twenty-fifth of June, 1856, the patentee left England in August or September, 1859, and returned to the
United States.
Conclusive proof that the patentee did not accomplish results in France, which would show that the patented process,
applied by the means and in the mode of operation set forth
in the specification, is exhibited in the record of the other
case between the same parties, which was heard at the same
time. Reference is made to the report of the jury upon
organic chemistry made the third of December, 1855, to the
international exhibition held in Paris, which is made an exhibit in that case.
Chemists, say the jury, liken neutral fats to compound
ether, which was the hypothesis put forth by Chevreul in
his investigations of such matters. Ether, it vas known,
may be decomposed by being heated to a high temperature
in close vessels with water, and from that persons were led
quite naturally to attempt to effect in the same way the decomposition of neutral fats, and they state that experience
has confirmed the assumed theory, which, as the jury say,
is the origin of all the new processes of saponification to
which they refer, and they add that it was the patentee in
this case who first had the idea of applying such reaction on
a large scale, which they verify by an extract from the specification of the patent;* but, as they report, they visited the
manufactory of Nlonier & Co., where they had the opportunity of seeing the trial of the process in its application to
palin oil, and they conclude their report upon the subject as
follows:t
"We are sorry to say that the fatty matter on coming out
of the apparatus was not at all deodorized, and, more besides
than that, that it gave out a strong odor of acrolein. From
the point of view of the quality of the products, this arrangement of apparatus, then, by no means realized the end which
the author has proposed. Moreover, in our opinion, the
* Supra, pp. 307-B.-1 EP

t Supra, pp. 335-G.- RrrP.

410

MITCHELL V. TILGHMAN.

[Sup.

at.

Opinion of the court.-Practicalness-Patent of 1860.

chances of deterioration of a system of apparatus of any kind
which works constantly at a temperature capable of exerting
a pressure of ninety to one hundred atmospheres are such
that it is hardly possible that industry will utilize it, even
if the products which it furnishes were irreproachable."
Made public, as the report was, more than two years
before the patentee returned to the United States, it may be
presumed that it came to his knowledge before his return.
On the fifteenth of May, 1860, the new patent referred to
was granted to him in this country,* which affords the most
conclusive proof that the alleged invention is one of a very
different character from that described in the specification
of the patent in issue in this case, and yet he states under
oath that he verily believes that he is the original and first
inventor of the improvement, and that to the best of his
knowledge and belief it had not been known or used before
his application for the patent, which is utterly repugnant to
the pretence that anything which is embodied in that patent
was included in the one granted to him more than five years
before the latter application was filed.
Experience seems to have greatly modified the views of
the patentee, as he now characterizes the improvement as a
new and improved method of decomposing fatty and oily
substances, and alleges that it is applicable either when
water alone is used, or when, in addition to water, a portion
of alkali is used to aid the chemical action; and he also
alleges, that to extract the whole of the glycerin from the
fat with a moderate quantity of water, when the lower range
of pressure is used, requires considerable time; and he actually states that his invention consists in applying the water
to the fat in several successive portions.
High temperature and pressure are represented as the
agents of decomposition, but in the view of the complainant as
expressed in that specification the high temperature required
may be only that which is represented by a pressure of one
hundred and twenty to one hundred and fifty pounds to tho
See supra, pp. 353-355.-RzP.

Oct. 1873.]

MITCHELL V. TILGHMAN.

Opinion of the court.-racticalness--Experts.

square inch. Gauges to indicate the required temperature
are dropped, and all idea of rapid manipulation seems to be
discarded as the terms "a considerable time" or "ffrom
two to three hours" are substituted in the place of "ten
minutes."
Vessels of very great strength are no longer required, as
the patentee states that his invention may be applied to any
of the difibrent forms of boilers or tanks used for the decomposition of fats by water at a high temperature or pressure,
meaning, doubtless, that the terms high temperature and
pressure shall be understood in the same sense in which he
employs them in a subsequent part of the same paragraph.
Water may be supplied when wanted, aind, of course, it is
of no moment even if some of it is converted into steam;
nor does the specification contain any requirement that the
heating apparatus shall be kept entirely fill of the mixture,
or that neither steam nor air shall accumulate therein during
the time required for decomposition, or, in other words, the
old specification is divested of every one of its extreme conditions, and the inventor, under his new patent, is left free
to claim every means and every mode of operation which
the ingenuity of man ever did or ever can invent or discover.
Further remarks respecting it, however, may be omitted, as
it is not the subject of litigation in this case.

Chemical and mechanical experts were examined as witnesses on both sides in about equal numbers. Those called
by the complainant express the opinion that the patented
process may be applied by the means and in the mode of
operation described in the specification so as to accomplish

useful results, and of a character to give commercial value
to the new product. On the other hand, those examined by
the respondent express opinions widely different, and most
or all of them are of the opinion not only that the means
and mode of operation described in the patent cannot be so
applied that the invention will be practically useful, but
several of them state that the attempt to apply it witlut the
exercise of extraordinary precautions must be attended with
danger to the operator.

MITCHELL V. TILGHMAN.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.-Infringement.

Most of the expert witnesses made experiments in applying the process, and in the course of their examination were
required to state the results of the same as supporting their
opinions, but experiments made, as most of these were, with
small apparatuses admitting only a small charge of the fatty
substance or mixture to be treated are not entitled to much
weight in determining such an issue, however satisfactory
the analysis may have been to the chemist who conducted
it, as the issue necessarily involves very difficult questions
of mechanics as well as of chemistry.
Taken as a whole the evidence convinces the court that
the patentee never did succeed in introducing his invention
into practical use by the means and in the mode of operation
described in the specification to such an extent as would
warrant the court in finding that issue in his favor.
Doubts of a very serious character are also entertained by
the court whether the patented process, unless divested of
its extreme and unparalleled conditions, can ever be reduced
to practice by the means and in the mode of operation described in the specification, so as to be practically useful or
safe to the operator, but the proofs are very conflicting upon
the point, and inasmuch as it is impossible to foresee what
future experiments may do in the way of overcoming the
existing doubts and difficulties, the court is not inclined to
rest their decision entirely upon that ground.
3. Passing from that, the next question is whether the
proofs show that the respondent practiced and used the patented process of the complainant, when properly construed
and defined, as charged in the bill of complaint.
Such au inquiry cannot be intelligently considered without first ascertaining what the respondent's process is, as it
is obvious that the two processes must be compared in order
to determine whether they are substantially the same in
principle and mode of operation, or substantially different,
which is the criterion by which to determine every such
asue as the one under consideration.
Factories have been erected by the respondent for manu.

Oct. 1873.]

MITCHELL

v.

TILGHMAN.

Opinion of the court.-Infringement.

facturing candles, and he is largely engaged in that business, but he denies that he uses the alleged iniprovLment
of the complainant, or any method of decomposing neutral
fats embracing the means and mode of operation described
in the specification of the complainant's patent. He admits
that in his process of manufacture he uses water at high
temperature, and steam, and that he also uses such pressure
as arises from the expansive force of hot water or steam in
a close vessel; that he is engaged in manufacturing candles
under and in pursuance of letters-patent granted by the
United States of the twenty-fifth of January, 1859, to
Wright and Fouch6, as subsequently amended, but he denics that he employs either the method, process, or apparatus described in the complainant's specification.
Appropriate means are at hand to enable the court to
make the comparison, as the patent under which the respondent works was given in evidence at the hearing.* On
the face of the patent it purports to be a new and useful
improvement in process for decomposing fits, and it appears
that the inventors obtained a patent for the improvement in
France two years before the complainant left England to
return to the United States, and more than three years before the complainant obtained his new patent in this country.
in which he left out all of the extreme and unexampled
conditions of the old patent, and in which he stated under
oath that he verily believed he was the original and first
inventor of the improvement, and that it had never been
known or used before his then application was filed.
Wright and Fouch6 describe their invention in their
specification as a new apparatus destined to produce chemical decomposition by means of superheated steam and
water, and that it is chiefly intended for the decomposition
of fatty substances into fat-acids and glycerin, and they particularly describe the means to be employed and the mode
of operation when the patented method is applied to that
purpose. Drawings are annexed to the specification, which
* See it, suma, pp. 298-304.-REP.

MITCHELL

v.

TILGHMAN.

[Sup. Cr.

Opinion of the court.-Infringement.

contain figures of the apparatus to be employed in applying
the patented process in the decomposition of fatty substances
to obtain fat-acids and glycerin.
Two vessels constructed of iron or copper are required
for the purpose-one is called the boiler in the specification,
which it is said may be of any form, and the other is called
the cylinder, and is placed on a base and elevated higher
than the boiler. Both are required to be sufficiently strong
to resist a pressure of from ten to twenty atmospheres, and
of a capacity varying according to the requirements of the
manufacture, and they are connected by a tube extending
from the-bottom of the boiler to the bottom of the cylinder,
and also by another tube, called in the specification the tube
for ascension to conduct the superheated water from the
boiler to the upper part of the cylinder, which terminates
in the interior of the cylinder by a rose-jet, or holes may be
made in the end of it, so as to distribute the water uniformly
in the cylinder and to insure the intimate contact between
the superheated water and the fatty substance subjected to
the process. Fatty substances to be subjected to the process
are placed in the cylinder, which, with other things, is furnished with a pressure gauge to indicate the pressure in the
apparatus used with devices to indicate the height and level
of the substance and of the water in the cylinder.
Everything being arranged as described for applying the
process, the boiler is completely filled with water and the
cylinder is filled with water to one-third of its height, and
then it is filled to the level or the upper cock, shown in the
drawings, with the fatty substances to be decomposed, the
latter substance or substances being above the water in the
cylinder, which is still not filled, there being a vacant space
in the cylinder above the fatty substance. Heat is then applied to the boiler, which is placed in a furnace where it
may be exposed to fire. By the direction the heat is to be
gradually applied until the pressure gauge indicates a pres
sure of ten to twenty atmospheres, according to the nature
of the fatty substance to be decomposed.
Minute description is then given of what it is claimed

Oct. 1873.]

MITCHELL

v.

TILGHMAN.

Opinion of the eourt.-Infringement.

takes place in the apparatus. Superheated water it is said
acquires an ascending motion, whence it results that the
heated water in the boiler ascends through the described
tube into the cylinder, and being forcibly drawn out through
the holes in the described rose-jet, passes through the fatty
substance to the vacant space above, where the temperatare being reduced, it descends through the other described
tube to the bottom of the boiler, where it is again heated
and then recommences its ascending motion as in the first
instance, and so on during the operation.
Suggestion is made that the operation may be continued
f'om five to eight hours, according to the nature of the fatty
substance composing the charge and the degree of heat and
pressure applied, and it is claimed that the result will be
that the fatty substance will be decomposed and that the
product will be fat-acids and glycerin.
In their specification they admit that it is a well-known
scientifle fact that fatty substances may be decomposed by
water under the influence of heat and pressure, which could
not well be denied in view of the fact that water or its
equivalent was used in all the prior processes of saponification, and of the great mass of other evidence to support
that proposition which is embodied in this record. Consequently those inventors do not claim to be the discoverers
of that scientific truth. All they claim is that their invention consists of an apparatus wherein water and the fatty
substances are heated separately in two different boilers,
the first boiler being heated in the furnace, called in the
specification the source of heat, while the second boiler,
called the cylinder, is heated from the first boiler.
Unlike as the two processes are in so many material characteristics, it seems almost a work of supererogation to
enter much into details, as the dissimilarity is apparent in
the whole description of the respective inventions, except
that both contemplate the employment of heat and water in
effecting the decomposition of fatty substances; and even
in that respect, they are widely different, as the patentees
under whose patent the respondent works employ only

MITCHELL

v.

TILGHMAN.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.-Infringement.

moderate heat as compared with the other process, never
exceeding in practice what is represented by a pressure of
one hundred and eighty pounds to the square inch; and
they also employ steam as well as water in a vessel which is
never filled with the fatty substance or with water or with
both combined.
None of the other characteristic conditions of the complainant's invention are found in the specification of the
patent under which' the respondent works, full proof of
which is shown in the enumeration of those conditions,
which are as follows:
1. That the fatty substances to be treated must be first
mixed with water equal in bulk to one-third or one-half of
the fatty substance.
2. That for that purpose the fatty substance and the
water in the proportions mentioned must be put into the
described receiving vessel, where it must be subjected to
the action of the piston with the perforated disk until it
causes the fat and the water to form an emulsion or iirtimate
mechanical mixture.
3. That the mixture so formed must then be driven by a
force-pump through the connecting tube into the heating
vessel, whether a coil of iron tubing or other convenient
vessel, and be subjected to a high degree of heat and pressure for ten minutes to effect the decomposition of the fatty
substance.
4. That the heating vessel must be closed and of great
strength, so that the requisite amount of pressure may be
applied to prevent the conversion of the water into steam.
5. That the heating vessel must be filled with the mixture and kept entirely full of it throughout the operation.
6. That the only means suggested to fulfil the condition
is the forcing pump, as the provision is that if necessary the
speed of the forcing pump should be increased.
7. That the heating vessel must be kept full of the mixture, so that no steam or air shall accumulate in the heating
vessel, and to preserve the intimate mechanical mixture of
the fatty substance and the water, as the description does

Oct. 1873.]

MITCHELL V. TILGHMAN.

Opinion of the court.-Infringement.

not suggest any means to supply any deficiency of water in
any other way, whether occasioned by evaporation or by its
being converted into steam.
8. That the temperature required for the operation, if the
fatty substance be such as palm oil, is 5100 Fahr., or if such
as beef tallow or the tallow of sheep, it must be carried to
6100 Fahr., or the melting-point of lead.
9. That the heating vessel should be tested before taken
into use by a pressure of ten thousand pounds, and should
be of sufficient strength to be safe at a working pressure of
two thousand pounds to the square inch.
10. That the apparatus must be furnished with gauges to
indicate the required heat to be applied in the operation,
and with a refrigerator near the exit end of the apparatus to
cool down the product from its high temperature below
2120 Fahr. before it is discharged into the receiving vessel.
Compare these conditions with the specification of the
patent under which the respondent works and it is clear
that he does not use any such method, process, or operation
as those described in the letters-patent of the complainant.'
Witnesses have been examined by each party as experts,
to assist the court in making the comparison, but they differ
so widely in their statements as to afford the court but little
aid in the solution of the question. Attention is also drawn
to the fact that several circuit judges have decided otherwise, to which the proper reply seems to be that the proof'
before the court are much fuller than on any former occasion, and that the conclusion stated is the best one the court
can form after having given the whole record an attentive
examination.
Expert witnesses on both sides have been examined also
upon the issue of infringement, but they differ so widely in
opinion that their testimony affords the court but little aid
in deciding the question, which after all must depend chiefly
upon the comparison of the descriptive portions of the two
specifications.*
* Hill v. Thompson, 1 Webster's Patent Cases, 232; Turner v. Winter, lb. 77.
VOL. xii.

27

MITCHELL

v.

[Sup. Ct.

TILGHMAN.

Opinion of the court.-Infringement.

Two things are not the same under the patent law when
one is in practice substantially better than the other in a
case where the second improvement is not gained by the
use of the same means or known mechanical equivalents.*
Patent laws have for their leading purpose the encouragement of useful inventions. Practical utility is their object,
and it would be strange if with such object in view the law
should consider two things substantially the same which
practically and in reference to their utility are substantially
different.t
Slight differences in degree cannot be regarded as of
weight in determining the question of substantial similarity
or substantial difference, but in all cases the question
whether the difference in degree is sufficient or insufficient
to prove the alleged infringement is a question of fact to be
determined by the jury in an action at law, or by the court
in a suit in equity.1
Differences, however, so great as are exhibited in this
record relieve the case, in the judgment of the court, from
all doubt, and warrant the conclusion that the process under
which the respondent works is substantially different from
that of the complainait.
On the twenty-third of November, 1867, the patent of the
complainant was extended for seven years from the expifation of the fourteen years for which the original patent was
granted. Subsequently, to wit, on the sixth of March, 1871,
the complainant instituted a second suit against the respon
.dent founded upon the extended patent, which is number
840 on the calendar. Both cases were heard at the same
time. Suffice it to say in respect to the latter that the pleadings, issues, and proofs in the two cases are substantially
the same, and that the latter must be disposed of in the
same way as the preceding case.
Decrees were entered in these cases respectively in the
* Curtis on Patents, 4th edition,

$ Cahoon v. Ring, 1 Clifford, 621.

330.

t Ib.

881.

Oct. 1873.]

TELEGRAPH

COMPANY V. EYSER.

Statement of the case.

Circuit Court in favor of the complainant, each of which
must be reversed.
DECREE IN EACH CASE REVERSED with costs, and the cases
respectively remanded with direction to DISMISS the respective bills of complaint.
Justices SWAYNE, STRONG, and BRADLEY dissented.
Mr. Justice DAVIS took no part in the judgment.

TELEGRAPH COMPANY v. EYSER.
Under the eleventh section of the act of June 1st, 1872, "to further the administration of justice" (and which allows any person desiring to have
a judgment, decree, or order, &c., reviewed on error or appeal, and to
stay proceedings during the pendency of such writ of error or appeal, to
"give the security required by law therefor within sixty days after the
rendition of such judgment, decree, or order," &c.), it is not necessary
to make it a supersedeas that the writ of error be served as was required
by the twenty-third section of the Judiciary Act, or the supersedeas
bond be filed, within ten days (Sundays excepted) after the rendering of
the judgment complained of. The supersedeas bond may be executed
within sixty days after the rendition of the judgment, and the writ may
be served at any time before or simultaneous with the filing of the bond.

ON motion, by Mr. . Rubley Ashton, for a supersedeas to
the Supreme Court of Colorado Territory and the District
Court in and for the county of Arapaho in .that Territory.
The case was thus:
The Judiciary Act of 1789, after enacting by its twentysecond section that final judgments in the Circuit Court
may be examined and reversed, or affirmed in the Supreme
Court, the citation being in such case signed by a judge of
the Circuit Court or justice of the Supreme Court, and the
adverse party having at least thirty days' notice, . . . continues:
"And every justice or judge signing a citation on any writ
of error as aforesaid, shall take good and sufficient security

