Oct. 1873.]

UNITED STATES V. INNERARITY.

Statement of the case.

UNITED STATES V. INNERARITY.
Under the act of June 22d, 1860, "for the final adjustment of private land
claims in the States of Florida, Louisiana, and Missouri," &c. (a temporary act, which having expired was tempora-ily revived by an act
of March 2d, 1867), a person who files his petition in time, claiming land
to which be afterwards discovers that he has no title, cannot, by a supplemental petition acknowledging his mistake and showing who the right
owner is, make his petition enure to the benefit of suci right owner,
who has let pass the time for asserting his title under the act.

from the District Court for Louisiana.
of
Congress, passed June 22d, 1860,* provided for
An act
the adjustment of land claims in Louisiana, emanating from
APPEAL

foreign goveruments prior to the cession of the region to

the United States.

The act was temporary in its Mature,

and, having expired, was revived for three years by an act of

March 2d, 1867.t This new act having also expired, a revivor
was again made for three years by an act of June 10th, 1872.4
Under the second of these acts, Eloise Innerarity and others,
alleging that they were the sole heirs of James Innerarity,
deceased, on the 1st of March, 1870, filed their bill in the
court below, averring that they as such sole heirs were entitled to a judicial recognition of a Spanish patent of 20,000
arpents of land in the present parish of East Baton Rouge,
Louisiana, made to one Ramos, and that after the issuing of
the patent the land became the property of their ancestor.
To this petition there was a general demurrer filed.
Subsequently, on the 27th of November, 1871, a supplemental petition was filed, alleging that since the filing of the
original petition the petitioners had discovered that the true
right to the lands claimed and to such confirmation existed,
not iu themselves, as they had heretofore avered and had
sufficient reasons to believe, but in other persons, to wit, the
heirs of John Watkins.
To this supplemental petition the United States demurred,
* 12 Star. at Large, 85,

11.

t 14 Id. 544.

1 17

Ia 378.

U'NITED STATES V.

INNERARITY.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the United States.-Argument for the claimants.

for the reason that the time within which by the act of
1860 and the act of 1867, petitions for the confirmation of
titles thereunder could be brought, had expired at the time
of filing the supplemental petition, and that no new parties
could be substituted thereafter; and that the heirs of Innerarity, in and by their supplemental petition, judicially confessed that they had not, and had not at the time of filing
their original petition, any right to the lands claimed therein.
This demurrer was overruled, and a decree was made in
favor of the representatives of John Watkins for a portion
of the land.
From this decree the United States took this appeal.
Mr. C. I. Hill, Assistant Attorney-General, for the Uniited
Sifles :
Snits of this kind are matters of strict right, and entirely
depcdent upon the statutes authorizing them to be brought,
and parties must bring themselves clearly within those acts.
There. is nothing in the petition to show any connection
or joint interest between the heirs or Innerarity, who first
filed the petition, and the other parties in whose behalf the
supplemental petition was filed. And allowing an amendment at the time the supplemental petition was filed, bringing in new parties, was really extending, as to them, the
time within which an action could be brought, beyond the
period mentioned iu the act of 1867, and ought not to have
been allowed.
As to the heirs of Innerarity, the supplemental petition
admits that they have no title to the property, and the decree entered was only in favor of the heirs of Watkins.
Messrs. R. H. and J. L. Bradford, contra:
The court should give a liberv] construction of the liberal
statute of 1860 as revived. It is an act of indemnity. The
objection of Mr. Attorney-General is purely technical. The
mierits of our case are not denied. The case relates, of
course, to very ancient transactions, which the interests of
the government and the necessities of aged claimants make

Oct. 1873.]

UNITED STATES V. INERARITY.

597

Opinion of the court.

it desirable to bring to a conclusion. If dismissed now our
ease must come up here again at multiplied costs, under the
new act of 10th of June, 1872. Such delay, circuity, and
expense should be avoided by affirming the decree below.
Mr. Justice HUNT delivered the opinion of the court.
It appears that the allegations of the petition were made
in ignorance of the facts, and that Innerarity really had no
claim in law or in equity to the land described. This necessarily disposes of the case as to his heirs.
The attempt to set up a claim under this petition or a supplemental petition by Innerarity's heirs in favor of the heirs
of John Watkins, cannot be sustained. It does not appear
that Watkins derived title from Innerarity, or that Innerarity ever had any title. The case is simply this: Innerarity's
heirs have filed their petition in time, but have no title.
Watkins's heirs have a title, but have not filed a petition for
its allowance. Watkins's title cannot be interposed by the
present petitioners. Such practice is unknown. If a suit be
commenced by A. to recover land or money, he failing on
the merits, cannot bring into his suit a new plaintiff, espe.
cially one whose action, if then commenced, would be barred
by the statute of limitations. If otherwise, the same suit
can be continued indefinitely, constantly making new plaintifs, until some one shall be found who has a meritorious
claim. It would be a practical abrogation of the limitation
of the statute. The act of 1867 has been further extended,
and the heirs of Watkins must make an original application
in their own names. We understand the case of United
States v. Patterson* to be a decisive authority against the
present claim.
DECREE REVERSED, and the case remitted to the District
Court of Louisiana, with directions to
DISMIss THE PETITION.
* 15 Howard, 12.

