Oct. 1873.]

REES V.

CITY oF WATERTOWN.

Statement of the case.

irremediable difficulty as to jurisdiction, however diversified
the residence of those necessary to be made defendants.
This record is in a singularly defective and confused condition. The allegations in the bill lack clearness and precision. This has perhaps arisen from the want of full and
accurate information until the coming in of the answers.
There are important averments on both sides unsupported
by evidence. Important papers are referred to, but copies
are not given, and there is no proof of their contents. There
are many matters of detail of no moment to the rights of
the parties which should be expunged. If there were no
defect of parties, we should have great difficulty in disposing
of the case upon the pleadings and proofs before us. If the
case shall be brought here again, these objections, it is to be
hoped, will in the meantime be obviated.
DECREE REVERSED, and the cause remanded, with directions to proceed

IN CONFORMITY TO
THIS OPINION.

REES V. CITY OF WATERTOWN.
Although a mandamus, and alias mandamus, and pluries mandamus, commanding a city to levy and collect a tax upon the taxable property of
its citizens in it, to pay judgments which the relator in the mandamus
has obtained against it, have all, in consequence of the devices of the
city authorities, such as resignation of their offices, &c., proved unavailing to compel the levy and collection of the tax, and though "the prospect of future success" by the same writ "is perhaps not flattering,"
the Federal courts sitting in equity do not possess power to appoint the
marshal to levy and collect the tax, nor to subject the taxable property
situate within the corporate limits of the city in any way to an assessment in order to pay the judgment.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court for the Western District
of Wisconsin; the case being thus:
lees, a citizen of Illinois, being owner of certain bonds
issued under authority of an act of the legislature of the State

108

REES v. CITY OF WATERTOWN.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

of Wisconsin, by the city of Watertown, in that State, to
the Watertown and Madison Railroad Company, and by
the company sold for its benefit, brought suit in the Circuit
Court of the United States for the District of Wisconsin,
against the city, and, in 1867, recovered two judgments for
about $10,000.
In the summer of 1868 he issued executions upon the two
judgments thus obtained, which were returned wholly unsatisfied.
In INovember of the same year he procured from the
United States Circuit Court a peremptory writ of mandamus,
directing the city of Watertown to levy and collect a tax
upon the taxable property of the city, to pay the said judgments; but before the writ could be served, a majority of
the members of the city council resigned their offices. This
fact was returned by the marshal, and proceedings upon the
mandamus thereupon ceased.
In May, 1869, another board of aldermen having been
elected, Rees procured another writ of mandamus to be
issued, which writ was served on all of the aldermen except
one .:iolger, who was sick at the time of the service upon
the others. No steps were taken to comply with the requisition of the writ. Anl order to show cause why the aldermen should not be punished for contempt, in not complying
with its requirements, was obtained, and before its return
day six of the aldermen resigned their offices, leaving in
office but one more than a quorum, of whom the said Holger,
upon whom the writ had not been served, was one. Various
proceedings were had and various excuses made, the whole
resulting in an order that the aldermen should at once levy
and collect the tax; but before the order could be served
on Eolger, ie resigned his office, and again the board was
left without a quorum. Nothing was accomplished by their
effort in aid of the plaintiff, but fines were imposed upon
the recusant aldermen, which were ordered to be applied in
discharge of the costs of the proceedings.
In October, 1870, the plaintiff obtained a third writ of
mandamus, which resulted as the former ones had done, and

Oct. 1873.]

REES V.

CITY

or

WATERTOWN.

Statement of the case.

by the same means, on the part of the officers of the city.
A special election was ordered to be held to fill the vacancies
of the aldermen so resigning, but no votes were cast, except
three in one ward, and the person for whom they were cast
refused to qualify. The general truth of these facts was not
denied. No part of the debt was ever paid.
In this state of things, the district of Wisconsin having
been divided into an eastern and a western district, and the
city of Watertown being in the latter, Rees brought suit in
the latter district on his judgments obtained in the general
district before the division, and got a new judgment upon
them for $11,066.
lHe now filed a bill in the said western district, setting
forth the above facts, the general truth of which was not
denied; that the debt due to him had never been paid, and
that, with an accumulation of fourteen years' interest, the
same remained unpaid, and that all his efforts to obtain satisfaction of his judgments had failed. All this was equally
undenied.
The bill set forth also certain acts of the legislature of
Wisconsin, which, it was alleged, were intended to aid the
defendant in evading the payment of its debts, and which,
it seemed sufficiently plain, had had that effect, whatever
might have been the intent of the legislature passing them.
The bill alleging that the corporate authorities'were trustees for the benefit of the creditors of the city, and that the
property of the citizens was a trust fund for the payment
of its debts, and that it was the duty of the court to lay
hold of such property and cause it to be justly applied, now
prayed that the court would subject the taxable property of
the city to the payment of the judgments. It asked specifically that a decree might be made, subjecting the taxable
property of the citizens to the payment of the complainant's
judgments, and that the marshal of the district might be
empowered to seize and sell so much of it as might be necessary, and to pay over to him the proceeds of such sale.
The answer (or the argument made in the brief upon it)
set up, among other things, "that the city of Watertown

110

1

REES V.

CITY OF WATERTOWN. -

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

contained a population of but 7553 inhabitants; that the
value of its property was assessed at but little over a million
of dollars; that the debt of the city is $750,000; that it was
impossible for the city to pay this debt; that it was expected
and provided that the railroad company would pay the bonds
in question; that the city had compromised and settled a
portion of its debt; that it had levied the taxes necessary to
effect such compromise; and that it was ready to compromise all outstanding bonds and judgments at as high a
rate as can be collected of the people of Wate 'town ; that
there was no law to compel the retention of the office by
aldermen to levy taxes; that the plaintiff took his chance
of its being voluntarily done, and that not being voluntarily
done there was no violation of law."
By the charter of the city of Watertown* it was thus
enacted:
"Nor shall any real or personal property of any inhabitant
of said city, or any individual or corporation, be levied upon or
sold by virtue of any execution issued to satisfy or collect any
debt, obligation, or contract of said city."
The case was tried in June, 1872, before two judges, holding the Circuit Court, upon these questions:
"1. Whether, when the principal and interest on the bonds
were unpaid, as well as the judgment, and there being no property on which to levy an execution, the plaintiff was confined
to a remedy at law by mandamus or otherwise, to enforce the
payment of his judgment recovered in this court.
"2. Whether it was competent for the court, as a court of
equity, on the failure of the officers of the city of Watertown to
levy the tax as required by law, referred to in the bill, through
their neglect, refusal, absence, or resignation, to appoint the
marshal of the court to levy and collect the tax to pay the judgment.
"3. Whether it was competent for the court, as a court of
equity, to subject the taxable property situate within the orporate limits of the city of Watertown, in any way, to an asse ss
* Private laws of

Wisconsin, acts of 1856, cI apter 287.

Oct. 1873.]

REES

V.

CITY OF WATERTOWN.

Argument for the creditor.

ment, in order to pay the judgment of this court referred to in
the bill of complaint."
The judges were divided in opinion upon them and the
bill was dismissed.
The case was now here on certificate of division and appeal, the error assigned being that the court dismissed the
bill, when it ought to have given the relief prayed for.
Messrs. B. W. and D. 1W. Tenney (with whom was Mr. S.
U. Pinney), for the creditor appellant:
The theory of the bill is that the complainant having
established a clear legal right at law, and having demonstrated that he has no remedy there, it is the duty of a court
of equity to devise and enforce an effectual remedy. This
must be done through its own oflicerg, because there are no
others in existence capable of doing it.
The opposite theory is that the court can only command
existing city officers to execute existing State tax laws, and
if there are no such officers, the end of judicial power is
reached.
We assert the right of the Federal court to take possession
of a city, and sell it in its own way, without regard to State
laws or State officers. And on the other side, the position
is that the Federal court is powerless in this case to execute
its judgments, except through instrumentalities provided by
another sovereign; and that, these being withdrawn, the
city may safely and effectually repudiate its debt.
That we have established a clear legal right will be admitted. Equally admitted will it be that, in good faith,
through several years, we have tried with diligence, but in
vain, every resource of the law, and that now and for a long
time past there are no officers in existence capable of executing the command of the court to levy a tax, and that the
city has no property subject to execution. What is our
remedy at law, if we have one? Any further attempt at
law would not only be fruitless to us, but would bring the
court of law which sought to give it into ridicule.
Then comes the important question whether, all legal

REES V. CITY OF WATERTOWN.

[Sup. Ot.

Argument for the creditor.

remedies failing, the court of chancery can give us a remedy?
This involves the original and ultimate powers of the court.
Story says :*
"Perhaps the most general, if not the most precise description of a court of equity, in the English and American sense,
is, that it has jurisdiction in cases of rights recognized and
protected by the municipal jurisprudence, where a plain, adequate, and complete remedy cannot be had in the courts of common law."
Now, a proceeding at law, which, after having been tried
and retried, once, twice, and again, is found to be wholly
worthless, cannot be called "an adequate and complete
remedy."
Looking through the specific enumeration of the cases in
which equity acts, we find nothing substantially limiting the
broad statement made by Story, or taking our case out of it.
The very ground of the jurisdiction of equity is that there is
a legal right and no legal remedy, and by necessity the jurisdiction must be coextensive with the reason. Finding that
the general words and the reason of the law cover our case,
and finding no limitation thereon, we may stop and ask our
opponents to show where any limitation has been made, and
why it should be made, to prevent the court from giving us
redress in this case, as it does in others upon the same
reason. Here is legal right and no legal remedy. If that
ever gives jurisdiction, why not in this case? If the court
generally takes jurisdiction on that ground, what is there to
make this an exception ?
Will it be said that in other cases there is a practicable
remedy which the court can devise and enforce, but not in
this? The persons and the property chargeable with this
debt are within the territory habitually traversed by the
marshal, and so within the reach of the court. The number
of persons interested in resisting the execution of the decree
of the court is not so great but that the court can summon
* 1 Equity Jurisprudence,

33.

Oct. 1873.]

REES V.

CITY OF WATERTOWN.

113

Argument for the creditor.

to its aid a hundred fold to execute it. The thing to be
done is not so complex or extensive but that the court can
handle it properly. Wherein, then, is the difficulty?
Are the proper parties before the court to entitle us to the
relief we ask? The defendant is the same that contracted
the debt. It is the same that was charged with the duty of
paying it, and which alone had the power to take the prop.
erty of the citizens for that purpose. It is the embodiment
of the citizens to act for them in this matter, made and unmade by them at their pleasure, so far as filling the offices
and controlling their action is concerned. It had authority
to' borrow the money for the citizens, to spend it for the
citizens, and to defend against the payment of it at the expense of the citizens. In short, it had ample and exclusive
authority to represent the citizens at every stage. The citizens are a numerous and fluctuating body, whom it would
be impracticable to bring into court, and merely as representatives of a class, the officers upon whom the law requires
process to be served, and whose duty it is made to take
action in regard to it, have shown by their diligence that
they are sufficient for that purpose.
It may be said that we hold in substance only a contract
that the city officers will levy a tax for our benefit, and that
the court has no power except to compel a specific performance of this agreement. Such was not the contract. The
gist of the contract was to repay the money borrowed, and
to this the contract to raise a tax was subsidiary. We are
not seeking a specific performance through the means appointed, knowing it cannot be had, but, as in a creditor's
bill, are seeking to reach assets in equity which cannot be
reached at law. The case is the same as if any ordinary
debtor, at the time of contracting his debt, had agreed that
he would raise the money to pay it in a particular way, and
then had disabled himself from raising the money in that
way, having ample funds otherwise.
It may be said that the relief we ask involves an exercise
of the taxing power, and that this is not a judicial power
We do not ask the court to exercise the power of taxation,
VOL. XII.

8

REES V. CITY OF WATERTOWN.

[sup. Ct.

Argument for the creditor.

and we admit that in the proper sense of the word the court
does not possess such a power. In some analogous cases,
courts have spoken of" ordering the marshal to levy a tax,"
&c., and one of the questions certified here is, whether the
court has power to appoint the marshal to levy and collect
the tax which the city officers ought to have levied and collected. This makes it necessary to discriminate accurately
the taxing power from that which we invoke.
In this ordinary sense of the word, the taxing power is a
legislative power, and can only be exercised under and by
virtue of that power, and by the particular officers and in
the particular manner provided for by the legislature. But
the power which we invoke and the rights which we assert
are simpler than this. We say that the court has jurisdiction
of the persons and the property in question, and of the case;
and that it can, in any way which its wisdom may approve,
subject the taxable property of the city to the payment of
our debt, without the intervention of State taxing officers,
and without regard to tax laws. The court has the subjectmatter within its reach, and the persons representing it before its bar. It has property in sight, out of which it has
adjudicated that this debt should be paid. It can see no
restriction upon its power to lay hold of it and apply it to
that purpose. Why should it fail to execute justice in the
matter? It constantly hears controversies as to the title to
lands, or the existence of liens or charges upon them, or
equities respecting them, and finds no difficulty in handling
the matter by its own officers, by sale, or passing of title, or
otherwise, so as to accomplish what it has determined that
justice requires. If an equitable charge existed against a
tract of land owned in severalty by a thousand different persons, the court would not defeat the charge nor refuse jurisdiction because of the difficulty of settling the equities between so many defendants. That seems to us the only difficulty here, and not a very great one. And considering that
the parties interested have by their own wrongful acts prevented the payment of this debt by the levy of a tax, which
would have sett!ed the equities between them perfectly, it

Oct. 1873.]

REES V. CITY OF WATERTOWN.
Argument for the creditor.

seenis to us that we should not be delayed, much less defeated, by this difficulty.
Stating more specifically what remedy we think the court
should give us, we may say that it might be something like
this: The court might make a decree subjecting the taxable
property of the city of Watertown to the payment of this
debt, and ordering the marshal to make a list thereof from
the best sources he could obtain, and as nearly as convenient
like the last assessment roll, the same to be reported to the
court. The court might then hear and settle objections to
this list, apportion our claim upon the items thereof, as
valued, and order the marshal to collect from each person
or piece of property the amount apportioned thereto, or in
defiult, to sell the property, or levy on the property of the
persons in default, in the main following the analogy of the
tax laws, but not too literally. In all the proceedings these
things should be kept in mind: First, that the principal
object is to give the complainant a simple and effectual
remedy. Second, that the proceedings should be wholly in
the control of the Federal court, and should not depend on
the actions of any State or city officers. Third, that the
State tax laws should be disregarded as a source of authority, and regarded as an analogy only so far as convenient. Fourth, that anything done for the purpose of
settling equities between the defendants in interest is only a
matter of grace, and should not be allowed to work any
substantial injury to the complainant.
We suppose that the court might order the money to be
made out of any of the taxable property in the city, leaving
the citizens to settle the equities between themselves at their
leisure; and perhaps that would be the best way.
There is a dearth of precedents on the point now raised.
However, in Welch v. St. Genevieve,* the court, in a mandamus case, ordered the marshal to levy and collect a tax to
pay the debt. There was no State statute authorizing it.
in Supervisors v. Rogers,t the court issued a mandamus to
* 1 Dillon, 522.

-1 7 Wallace, 175.

REES V. OITY OF WATERTOWN.

[Sup. Ot,

Opinion of the court.

the marshal "commanding him to levy and collect the taxes
named in said peremptory writ," &c. But there was a State
statute authorizing the court to "direct that the act required
to be done may be done by the plaintiff or some other person
appointed by the court," and the proceeding was probably
founded upon that.
Mr. D. Hall (with whom was Messrs. H. H. Carpenterand
E-. L. Palmer), contra.
Mr. Justice HUNT delivered the opinion of the court.
This case is free from the objections usually made to a
recovery upon municipal bonds. It is beyond doubt that
the bonds were issued by the authority of an act of the legislature of the State of Wisconsin, and in the manner prescribed by the statute. It is not denied that the railroad, in
aid of the construction of which they were issued, has been
built, and was put in operation.
Upon a class of the defences interposed in the answer and
in the argument* it is not necessary to spend much time.
The theories upon which they proceed are vicious. They
are based upon the idea that a refusal to pay an honest debt
is justifiable because it would distress the debtor to pay it.
A voluntary refusal to pay an honest debt is a high offence
in a commercial community and is just cause of war between
nations. So far as the defence rests upon these principles
we find no difficulty in overruling it.
There is, however, a grave question of the power of the
court to grant the relief asked foi.
We are of the opinion that this court has not the power
to direct a tax to be levied for the payment of these judgments. This power to impose burdens and raise money is
the highest attribute of sovereignty, and is exercised, first,
to raise money for public purposes only; and, second, by
the power of legislative authority only. It is a power that
has not been extended to the judiciary. Especially is it be.
* Stated supra, pp. 109-110.

Oct. 1873.]

REES V. CITY OF WATERTOWN.
Opinion of the court.

yond the power of the Federal judiciary to assume the place
of a State in the exercise of this authority at once so delicate
and so important. The question is not entirely new in this
court.
In the case of Supervisors v. Bogers,* an order was made
by this court appointing the marshal a commissioner, with
power to levy a tax upon the taxable property of the county,
to pay the principal and interest of certain bonds issued by
the county, the payment of which had been refused. That
case was like the present, except that it occurred in the
State of Iowa, and the proceeding was taken by the express
authority of a statute of that State. The court say : "The
next question is as to the appointment of the marshal as a
commissioner to levy the tax in satisfaction of the judgment.
This depends upon a provision of the code of the State of
Iowa. This proceeding is found in a chapter regulating
proceedings in the writ of mandamus, and the power is
given to the court to appoiut a person to discharge the duty
enjoined by the peremptory writ which the defendant had
refused to perform, and for which refusal he was liable to
an attachment, and is express and unqualified. The duty
of levying the tax upon the taxable property of the county
to pay the principal and interest of these bonds was specially
enjoined upon the board of supervisors by the act of the
legislature that authorized their issue, and the appointment
of the marshal as a commissioner in pursuance of the above
section is to provide for the performance of this duty where
the board has disobeyed or evaded the law of the State and
the peremptory mandate of the court."
The State of Wisconsin, of which the city of Watertown
is a municipal corporation, has passed no such act. The
case of Supervisors v. Bogers is, therefore, of no authority in
the case before us. The appropriate remedy of the plaintiff
was and is a writ of mandamus.t This may be repeated as
often as the occasion requires. It is a judicial writ, a part
of a recognized course of legal proceedings. In the present
*7

Wallace, 176.

7 Riggs v. Johnson County, 6 WPUace, 193.

R EES V.

CITY OF WATERTOWN.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

case it has been thus far unavailing, and the prospect of its
future success is, perhaps, riot flattering. However this may
be, we are aware of no authority in this court to appoint its
own officer to execute the duty thus neglected by the city
in a case like the present.
In Welch v. St. Genevieve,* at a Circuit Court for the district of Missouri, a tax was ordered to be levied by the
marshal under similar circumstances. We are not able to
recognize the authority of the case. No counsel appeared
for the city (Mr. Reynolds as amicus curice only); no authorities are cited which sustain the position taken by the
court; the power of the court to make the order is disposed
of in a single paragraph, and the execution of the order suspended for three months to give the corporation an opportunity to select officers and itself to levy and collect the tax,
with the reservation of a longer suspension if it should
appear advisable. The judge, in delivering the opinion of
the court, states that the case is without precedent, and
cites in support of its decision no other cases than that of
Riggs v. Johnson County,t and Lansing v. T,'easurer.t The
first case cited does not touch the present point. The question in that case was whether a mandamus having been
issued by a United States court in the regular course of
proceedings, its operation could be stayed by an injunction
from the State court, and it was held that it could not be.
It is probable that the case of Supervisors v. Bogers§ was
the one intended to be cited. This case has already been
considered.
The case of Lansing v. Treasurer (also cited), arose within
the State of Iowa. It fell within the case of Supervisors v.
Rogers, and was rightly decided because authorized by the
express statute of the State of Iowa. It offered no precedent
for the decision of a case arising in a State where such a
statute does not exist.
These are the only authorities upon the power of this
10 American Law Rtegister, New Series, 512.
$ 9 American Law Register, N. S. 415.

t 6 Wallace, 166.
j 7 Wallace, 175.

Oct. 1873.]

REEs v.

CITY

OF WATERTOWN.

119

Opinion of the court.

court to direct the levy of a tax under the circumstances
existing in this case to which our attention has been called.
The plaintiff insists that the court may accomplish the
same result under a different name, that it has jurisdiction
of the persons and of the property, and may subject the
property of the citizens to the payment of the plaintiff's
debt without the intervention of State taxing officers, and
without regard to tax laws. His theory is that the court
should make a decree subjecting the'individual property of
the citizens of Watertown to the payment of the plaintiff's
judgment; direct the marshal to make a list thereof from
the assessment rolls or from such other sources of information as he may obtain; report the same to the court, where
any objections should be heard; that the amount of the debt
should be apportioned upon the several pieces of property
owned by individual citizens; that the marshal should be
directed to collect such apportioned amount from such persons, or in default thereof to sell the property.
As a part of this theory, the plaintiff argues that the court
has authority to direct the amount of the judgment to be
wholly made from the property belonging to any inhabitant
of the city, leaving the citizens to settle the equities between
themselves.
This theory has many difficulties to encounter. In seeking to obtain for the plaintiff his just rights we must be
careful not to invade the rights of others. If an inhabitant
of the city of Watertown should own a block of buildings
of the value of $20,000, upon no principle of law could the
whole of the plaintiff's debt be collected from that property.
Upon the assumption that individual property is liable for
the payment of the corporate debts of the municipality, it is
only so liable for its proportionate amount. The inhabitants
are not joint and several debtors with the corporation, nor
does their property stand in that relation to the corporation
or to the creditor. This is not the theory of law, even in
regard to taxation. The block of buildings we have supposed is liable to taxation only upon its value in proportion
to the value of the entire property, to be ascertained by

REES V.

CITY OF WATERTOWN.

[Sup. CL

Opinion of the court.

assessment, and when the proportion is ascertained and paid,
it is no longer or further liable. It is discharged. The
residue of the tax is to be obtained from other sources.
There may be repeated taxes and assessments to make up
delinquencies, but the principle and the general rule of law
are as we have stated.
In relation to the corporation before us, this objection to
the liability of individual property for the payment of a corporate debt is presented in a specific form. It is of a statutory character.
The remedies for the collection of a debt are essential
parts of the contract of indebtedness, and those in existence
at the time it is incurred must be substantially preserved to
the creditor. Thus a statute prohibiting the exercise of its
taxing power by the city to raise money for the payment of
these bonds would be void.* But it is otherwise of statutes
which are in existence at the time the debt is contracted.
Of these the creditor must take notice, and if all the remedies are preserved to him which were in existence when his
debt was contracted he has no cause of complaint.t
By section nine of the defendant's charter it is enacted as
follows: "Nor shall any real or personal property of any
inhabitant of said city, or any individual or corporation, be
levied uipon or sold by Yirtue of any execution issued to
satisfy or collect any debt, obligation, or contract of said
city."
If the power of taxation is conceded not to be applicable,
and the power of the court is invoked to collect the money
as upon an execution to satisfy a contract or obligation of
the city, this section is directly applicable and forbids the
proceeding. The process or order asked for is in the nature
of an execution; the property proposed to be sold is that of
an inhabitant of the city; the purpose to which it is to be
applied is the satisfaction of a debt of the city. The proposed remedy is in direct violation of a statute in existence
* Van Hoffman v. City ot Quincy, 4 Wallace, 535.

t Cooley, Constitutional Limitations, 285, 287.

Oct. 1873.]

REES V. CITY Or WATERTOWN.
Opinion of the court.

when the debt was incurred, and made known to the creditor
with the same solemnity as the statute which gave power to
contract the debt. All laws in existence when the contract
is made are necessarily re'erred to in it and form a part of
the measure of the obligation of the one party, and of the
right acquired by the other.*
But independently of this statute, upon the general principles of law and of equity jurisprudence, we are of opinion
that we cannot grant the relief asked for. The plaintiff invokes the aid of the principle that all legal remedies having
failed, the court of chancery must give him a remedy; that
there is a wrong which cannot be righted elsewhere, and
hence the right must be sustained in chancery. The difficulty arises from too broad an application of a general principle. The great advantage possessed by the court -ofchancery is not so much in its enlarged jurisdiction as in the
extent and adaptability of its remedial powers. Generally
its jurisdiction is as well defined and limited as is that of a
court of law. It cannot exercise jurisdiction when there is
an adequate and complete remedy at law. It cannot assume
control over that large class of obligations called imperfect
obligations, resting upon conscience and moral duty only,
unconnected with legal obligations. Judge Story says,t
"There are cases of fraud, of accident, and of trust which
neither courts of law nor of equity presume to relieve or to
mitigate," of which he cites many instances. Lord Talbot
says,J1"There are cases, indeed, in which a court of equity
gives remedy.where the law gives none, but where a particular remedy is given by law, and that remedy bounded
and circumscribed by particular rules, it would be very improper for this court to take it up where the law leaves it,
and extend it further than the law allows."
Generally its jurisdiction depends upon legal obligations,
and its decrees can only enforce remedies to the extent
and in the mode by law established. With the subjects of
Cooley, Constitutional Limitations, 285.
j- 1 Equity Jurisprudence, 61.
$ Heard v. Stanford, Cases Tempore Talbot, 174.

REES V.

CITY OF WATERNN.

[Sup. ct,

Opinion of the court.

fraud, trust, or accident, when properly before it, it can deal
more completely than can a court of law. These subjects,
however, may arise in courts of law, and there be well dis.
posed of.*
A court of equity cannot, by avowing that there is a right
but no remedy known to the law, create a remedy in violation of law, or even without the authority of law. It acts
upon established principles not only, but through established
channels. Thus, assume that the plaintiff is entitled to the
payment of his judgment, and that the defendant neglects
its duty in refusing to raise the amount by taxation, it does
not follow that this court may order the amount to be made
from the private estate of one of its citizens. This summary proceeding would involve a violation of the rights of
the latter. He has never been heard in court. He has had
no opportunity to establish a defence to the debt itself, or
if the judgment is valid, to show that his property is not
liable to its payment. It is well settled that legislative exemptions from taxation are valid, that such exemptions may
be perpetual in their duration, and that they are in some
cases beyond legislative interference. The proceeding supposed would violate that fundamental principle contained
in chapter twcntyninth of Magna Oharta, and embodied
in the Constitution of the United States, that no man shall
be deprived of his property without due process of law-that
is, he must be served with notice of the proceeding, and
have a day in court to make his defence.t
"Due process of law (it is said) undoubtedly means in the
due course of legal proceedings, according to those rules
and forms which have been established for the protection of
private rights."I In the New England States it is held that
a judgment obtained against a town may be levied upon
and made out of the property of any inhabitant of the town.
The suit in those States is brought in form against the inhabitants of the town, naming it; the individual inhabi* 1 Story's Equity Jurisprudence,

60.

t Westervelt v. Gregg, 12 New York, 209.

T Ib.

Oct. 1873.]

REES V. CITY OF WATERTOWN.

123

Opinion of the court.

tants, it is said, may and do appear and defend the suit, and
hence it is held that the individual inhabitants have their
day n court, are each bound by the judgment, and that it
may be collected from the property of any one of them.*
This is local law peculiar to New England. It is not the
law of this country generally, or of England.t It has never
been held to be the law in New York, in New Jersey, in
Pennsylvania, nor, as stated by Mr. Cooley, in any of the
Western States.1 So far as it rests upon the rule that these
municipalities have no common fund, and that no othet
mode exists by which demands against them can be enfbrced, he says that it cannot be considered as applicable to
those States where provision is made for compulsory taxation to satisfy judgments against a town or city.§
The general principle of law to which we have adverted
is not disturbed by these references. It is applicable to the
case before us. Whether, in fact, the individual has a defence to the debt, or by way of exemption, or is without
defence, is not important. To assume that he has none, and,
therefore, that he is entitled to no day in court, is to assume
against him the very point lie may wish to contest.
Again, in the case of Erneric v. Gilnan, before cited, it is
said: "The inhabitants of a county are constantly changing; those who contributed to the debt may be non-residents
upon the recovery of the j udgment or the levy of the execution. Those who opposed the creation of the liability may
be subjected to its payment, while those, by whose fault the
burden has been imposed, may be entirely relieved of reTo enforce this right against the inhabitants
sponsibility ....
of a county would lead to such a multiplicity of suits as to
We do not perceive, if the
render the right valueless."
doctrine coutendo: for is correct, why the money might not
be entirely made from property owned by the creditor him* See the cases collected in Cooley's Constitutional Limitations, 240-245.
t Russel v. Men of Devon, 2 Term, 667.
$ See Emeric v. Gilman, 10 California, 408, where all Cae cases are collected.
j Cooley's Constitutional Limitations, 246.

REES V. CITY OF WATERTOWN.

[-Slip. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

self, if he should happen to own property within the limits
of the corporation, of sufficient value for that purpose.
The difficulty and the embarrassment arising from an apportionment or contribution among those bound to make
the payment we do not regard as a serious objection. Contribution and apportionment are recognized heads of equity
jurisdiction, and if it be assumed that process could issue
directly against the citizens to collect the debt of the city, a
court of equity could make the apportionment more conveniently than could a court of law.*
We apprehend, also, that there is some confusion in the
plaintiff's proposition, upon which the present jurisdiction
is claimed. It is conceded, and the authorities are too abundaut to admit a question, that there is no chancery j urisdiction where there is an adequate remedy at law. The writ
of mandamus is, no doubt, the regular remedy in a case like
the present, and ordinarily it is adequate and its results are
satisfactory. The *plaintiff alleges, however, in the present
case, that he has issued such a writ on three different occasions; that, by means of the aid afforded by the legislature
and by the devices and contrivances set forth in the bill, the
writs have been fruitless; that, in fact, they afford him no
remedy. The remedy is in law and in theory adequate and
perfect. The difficulty is in its execution only. The want
of a remedy and the inability to obtain the fruits of a remedy
are quite distinct, and yet they are confounded in the present proceeding. To illustrate: the writ of haberefaciaspossessionern. is the established remedy to obtain the fruits of
a judgment for the plaintiff in ejectment. It is a full, adequate, and complete remedy. Not many years since there
existed in Central New York combinations of settlers and
tenants disguised as Indians, and calling themselves such,
who resisted the execution of this process in their counties,
and so effectually that for some years no landlord could gain
possession of his land. There was a perfect remedy at law,
but through fraud, violence, or crime its execution was pre.
* 1 Story's Equity Jurisprudence,

470 and onwards.

m

Oct. 1873.]

THE PENNSYLVANIA.

125

Syllabus.

vented. It will hardly be argued that this state of things
gave authority to invoke the extraordinary aid of a court of
chancery. The enforcement of the legal remedies was temporarily suspended by means of illegal violence, but the
remedies remained as before. It was the case of a miniature
revolution. The courts of law lost no power, the court of
chancery gained none. The present case stands upon the
same principle. The legal remedy is adequate and complete, and time and the law must perfect its execution.
Entertaining the opinion that the plaintiff has been unreasonably obstructed in the pursuit of his legal remedies,
we should be quite willing to give him the aid requested if
the law permitted it. We cannot, however, find authority
for so doing, and we acquiesce in the conclusion of the court
below that the bill must be dismissed.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

Mr. Justice OLIFFORD, with whom concurred Mr. Justice SWAYNE, dissenting:
I dissent from the opinion of the court in this case upon
the ground that equity will never suffer a trust to be defeated by the refusal of the trustee to administer the fund,
or on account of the misconduct of the trustee, and also
because the effect of the decree in the court below, if affirmed
by this court, will be to give judicial sanction to a fraudulent repudiation of an honest debt. For which reasons, as
3 seems to me, the decree of the subordinate court should
be reversed.

THE PENNSYLVANIA.
1. A collision occurred in a very dense fog between a sailing bark and a
large steamer, about two hundred miles from Sandy Hook, and therefore
in the track of inward and outward bound vessels. The bark was under
way moving slowly, and at about the rate of a mile an hour, and was
r7Ing n a bell as a fog signal. The steamer was going at the rate of seven
knots an hour.

