WARREN V. VAN BRUNT.

[Sup. Ot.

Syllabus.

We are of opinion that the charge of the court put the
case very fairly to the jury, as we understand the law, and
the judgment is, therefore,
AFFIRMED.

-WARREN V. VAN BRUNT.
1. Where two persons, before a public survey of it, made a settlement in
Mlinnesota on the same forty acres of land (a quarter of a quarter-section and the smallest legal subdivision allowed by statute), which settlement was in point of fact made at the same time-a joint settlement
therefore-the circumstance that in his declaratory statement, one of
the settlers has stated that his settlement was made on a day anterior to
the day which the other in his declaratory statement fixed as the date
of his, is not a circumstance which will induce this court to reverse a
decision of the register and receiver of the land office, affirmed by the
Secretary of the Interior, awarding the tract to him who the other
alleges made the later settlement; there being no fraud, imposition, or
mistake in the case. The court will regard the facts of the case, not
the allegations of the parties.
2. Where two joint settlers on such a piece of land, built from joint means
and for a time jointly occupied a house there, which house-on a misunderstanding between them and the running of a line apportioning the
land between them-was found to be on the land of one who now removed from and remained away from the land for several months, leaving the other in possession of the house (not as his tenant but as part
owner, and till he-the one on whose land it was-could pay to the other
half the sum which its erection had cost), and then, on payment of this
money, evicted the co-settler and put his own tenants in (he himself
occupying a wholly different forty acres, while the co-settler remained
in effect on the old tract, and built and afterwards occupied a house for
himself and family on it), held-on a bill which set up a superior right
of pre-emption to the whole forty acres and not an equitable right to a
joint ownership, or an ownership to part as settled by the dividing linethat this court would not reverse a decision of the register and receiver
affirmed by the Secretary of the Interior which on a similar claim by the
party who had removed, awarded the whole to the other party who with
his family remained.
8 A party cannot set up in his replication a claim not in any way made in
his bill, and the granting of which he asks in his replication only in the
event that the case made in his bill fails.
4 An entry of the public land by one person in trust for another being
forbidden by statute, equity will not, on a bill to enforce such a trust,
decree that any entry in trust was made.

Oct. 1873.]

WARREN V. VAN BRUNT,
Statement of the case.

to the Supreme Court of Minnesota.
This was a contest between two pre-emption claimants,
Warren, on the one hand, and the representatives of Van
Brunt, deceased, on the other, for the ownership of the
southeast quarter of the northeast quarter, section 13, township 108 N., R. 27 W. (forty acres), in the State of Minnesota. These last had the legal title under a patent from the
United States, issued upon the claim of Van Brunt. Warren, alleging that he had an elder and better right of preemption, sought by his action in the court below to charge
the representatives of Van Brunt as his trustees, and to
compel them to convey to him the title they acquired by the
patent.
The case was decided below upon facts found by the court,
and stated in the record. No exception was taken to the
finding, and the question presented, therefore, for the deterruination of this court was, whether upon the facts as found
there was error in the decree.
These facts were substantially as follows: Warren and
Van Brunt being each, in May, 1853, and thereafter until
the death of Van Brunt, legally competent to avail themselves of the pre-emption laws of the United States, in the
said month jointly selected for occupancy about two hundred and eighty acres of unsurveyed public lands in Minnesota, to which the Indian title had been extinguished.* They
settled upon the forty acres in dispute, and after ploughing
and planting two or three acres, proceeded with their joint
means and labor to erect thereon a house for a residence,
into which they moved with their families in June. They
occupied this house together until the 18th of July, when, a
difficulty having arisen between them, a contract of partition
was entered into, by which, after establishing a dividing
line, which ran diagonally across the premises in controversy and through the ploughed lands, it was agreed that
Warren should have the sole and exclusive use of all the lands
ERROR

* This was, of course, meant to correspond with seven tracts of forty acres
each, i. e., reven quarters of quarter-sections.

WARREN V.

VAN BRUNT.

[Sup. Ot.

Statement of the case.

selected for occupancy situated on the east side of the line,
and Van Brunt of all on the west. The house they had built
was on the part set off to Warren, but by the agreement
Van Brunt was to have the exclusive use of it until May 1st,
1854, when, on the payment to him of one-half its cost, he
was to surrender the possession to Warren for his exclusive
use thereafter. Upon the execution of this contract, Warren
went with his family to the town of Mankato-a town in the
neighborhood of the two hundred and forty acres of land,
but not on any part of it-leaving Van Brunt in the house.
Soon after, and within a reasonable time, he began the erection of a new house on a part of the premises set off to him,
adjoining the disputed property, into which he moved in the
autumn of 1853 with his family.
Van Brunt continued to occupy the first house in accordance with the terms of the contract of partition until May
1st, 1854, when Warren, having paid him for one-half its
cost, evicted him by legal proceedings. After his eviction,
he went into an abandoned "claim-shanty" on the part of
the premises set off to him, and remained there from two to
four weeks, during which time he erected a new house upon
the disputed property, but on his side of the dividing line.
As soon as this house was completed he moved into it with
his family and resided there until his death, on the 5th of
January, A. D. 1856. His family occupied the same house
as their residence after his death, until their title was perfected under his claim. In 1853 and 1854 he ploughed and
cultivated about twenty acres of the land occupied by him,
seventeen of which were on the disputed forty. In 1854 and
1855, be ploughed a few acres more and cultivated all his
improved lands. In 1855 he inclosed all his improvements
with a fence, and dug some ditches. In addition to his
house, he put up on the disputed property a large corn-crib,
a cow-house, and other outbuildings.
After the eviction of Van Brunt from the first house,
Warren moved into it and resided there' until the autumn
of 1854. He then went back to the house he built after the
partition, and remained thei e until after Van Brunt's heirs

Oct. 1873.]

WARREN

V.

VAN

BRUNT.

Statement of the case.

perfected their title. He cultivated and improved his lands
upon the east of and up to the agreed division line. by fencing, ploughing, and planting, and kept tenants in thefirst
house all the time after he left it until the commencement
of the action in the court below. Neither of the parties
disputed the right of the other to occupy and cultivate up
to the line of division until after the title of the Van Brunt
heirs was perfected.
The township lines were surveyed through the public
lands, which included the premises in dispute, in 1854, and
the subdivision lines in 1855. When the township lines
were run, Warren was residing with his family in the first
house, and his improvements on the disputed forty, including the house, were then equal to, if not greater in value,
than those of Van Brunt.
On the 19th July, 1855, Van Brunt filed in the land office
his declaratory statement under the pre-emption laws, claiming the right to enter and purchase the north half of the
southeast quarter and south half of the northeast quarter,
section 13, T. 108 N., R. 27 IV., containing one hundred and
sixty acres. His claim included the forty acres in dispute.
In his statement he gave the 4th of June, 1855, as the date of
his settlement.
It appeared from the pleadings and the statements of the
counsel for the plaintiff, in the argument, that in December,
1855, Warren filed his declaratory statement, also claiming
the right under the pre-emption laws to enter and purchase
the disputed premises, and the northwest quarter, southwest
quarter, and south half of the northwest quarter, section 18,
T. 108 N., R. 26 W., in all one hundred and sixty acres.
He gave the date of his settlement as November 17th, 1853.
On the 7th March, 1856, Warren served a notice upon the
widow and administratrix of Van Brunt, that he should contest her claim to the pre-emption of the forty acres in controversy, and, in consequence of this notice, both claimants
appeared before the register and receiver of the land office
and produced and examined their witnesses. After a full

WARREN V. VAN BRUNT.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the plaintiff in error.

hearing, these officers were unable to agree upon a decision,
and-the papers and proofs were thereupon sent to the Commissioner of the Getieral Office, who, on the 4th of April,
1857, decided in favor of the Van Brunt claim. Warren
appealed to the Secretary of the Interior, who, on the 81st
of October, A. D. 1857, affirmed the decision of the commissioner. On the 15th of May, 1860, a patent was issued to
the heirs of Van Brunt for the whole one hundred and sixty
acres claimed by him. In January, 1857, Warren received
a patent for the one hundred and twenty acres claimed by
him in section 18, and in February, 1865, filed a bill in one
of the State courts of Minnesota to recover from Van Brunt's
heirs the disputed forty acres.
The bill prayed a decree that Van Brunt's representatives
should convey to Warren the whole forty acres.
The answer-which mentioned as part of a history of
things which it gave, that the parties had divided their
claims by running a line, which line they supposed when
they made it would correspond with the east line of the forty
acres, as that line would be laid down by the government
survey-resisted this claim of the plaintiff and asserted title
in the whole forty acres in Van Brunt's representatives.
The replication, denying that the division-line as thus
agreed on gave Van Brunt any title to the forty acres, thus
continued:
"And the plaintiff prays in addition to the prayer of original
complaint, that, in case the court should not find for the plaintiff that he is entitled to a decree for a release of the whole disputed forty acres, that then the court may ascertain how the said
alleged division.line divides said forty acres, and that the defendants, on terms of payment of the original cost of the same, be
decreed to convey so much thereof as may be found to have been
assigned to him, to the plaintiff."
The Supreme Court of Minnesota, to which the case finally
got, adjudged the title to be in the heirs of Van Brunt, and
Warren brought the case here on error.

Oct. 1873.]

WARREN V. VAN BRUNT.

Opinion of the court.

Messrs. A S. Wilkinson and C. K. Davis, for the plaintiff in
error:
1. Warren, in his declaratory statement, dates his settle.
ment as of November 17th, 1853. Van Brunt does not pretend that his was made prior to June 4th, 1855. Warren's
settlement was thus anterior to Van Brunt's. Where two
or more persons have settled on the same quarter-section
the right of pre-emption belongs to him who has made the
first settlement.
2. If, in this view of the case, Warren is not entitled to
the whole forty acres, a joint entry should have been allowed
by the land department. There is nothing in the pre-emption laws which forbids a joint settlement, declaration, and
purchase. The admitted rule, "that where two or more persons have settled upon the same quarter-section each shall
be permitted to enter his improvement as near as may be by
legal subdivisions," is very well so far as it goes, but it will
not apply where both claimants have their improvements on
the same quarter of the quarter-section, or forty acres, the
smallest legal subdivision. In such a case exact justice
would seem to require that they enter jointly the whole.*
3. Finally. The very least that-Warren is entitled to is
the part of what now turns out to be the quarter of a quartersection; that would fall to him by giving effect to the dividing-line agreed on by the parties before the government survey. That is what he asks for, as an alternative.
M1essrs. J. 171. Carlisle and 1. D. McPherson, contra.
The CHIEF JUSTICE, having stated the case, delivered
the opinion of the court.
When Warren and Van Brunt made their settlement upon
the lands, in 1853, they acquired no right of pre-emption, as
the act of Congress then in force only gave that right to settlers upon lands in the then Territory of Minnesota which
* Opinion of the Secretary of the Interior; Laughton v. Caldwell, 1 Les.
ter's Land Laws, p. 387, Nos. 430, 431.

WARREN V. VAN

BRUNT.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

had been surveyed.* On the 4th of August, A.D. 1854, the
provisions of the Pre-emption Act were extended to unsurveyed lands in that Territory; but it was further provided
that if, when the lands were surveyed, it should appear that
two or more persons had settled upon the same quarter-section, each should be permitted to enter his improvements as
near as might be by legal subdivisions.t
There is no legal subdivision of the public lands less than
a quarter of a quarter-section, or forty acres, except in the
case of fractional sections. The lands in controversy, therefore, could not have been subdivided for the purposes of
entry and purchase. The forty acres must be taken as a
whole or not at all.
Warren and Van Brunt each claimed the right to purchase the whole. There could be no entry by either until
the questions arising between them had been settled. To
meet such a case, the act of Congress under which they each
made claim, provided that the register and receiver of the
land district in which the land was situated should make
such settlement, subject to an appeal to, and revision by, the
Secretary of the Interior.1 The Commissioner of the General Land Office exercised a supervision over this action of
the register and receiver under his general powers in respect
to private land claims and the issuing of patents.ยง The
issue of the patent upon the award of these officers was final
and conclusive as between the United States and the several
claimants. It passed the legal title to the patentee. The
remedy of the defeated party, if any thereafter, was by a
proceeding in the courts against the patentee or those claiming under him.
It is claimed on the part of the defendants in error that
the decision of the government officers in this case is conclusive as between the claimants themselves, inasmuch as
there was an actual submission of the controversy by both,
nd the court has found that there was no fraud, unfairness,
* 5 Stat. at Large, 455,

5 Id.
11
I Id. 107,

10.

t 10 Id. 576.

9 Id. 395, 3.
1 ; Barnard's Heirs v. Ashley's Heirs, 18 Howard, 44.

Oct. 1873.]

WARREN

V. VAN BRUNT.

Opinion of the court.

or misconduct in the hearing or in the production of the
testimony, either on the part of Van Brunt or his heirs, or
the several officers who were called upon to act.
This question has recently been fully considered by this
court, in the case of Johnson v. Towsley,* and it was there
heldt that "when those officers decide controverted questions of fact, in the absence of fraud or impositions, or mistake, their decision on those questions will be final," butJ
that "it was the right of the proper courts to inquire, after
the title had passed from the government and the question
became one of private right, whether, according to the established rules of equity and the acts of Congress concerning
the public lands, the party holding that title should hold absolutely as his own or as trustee for another." We are satisfied with this ruling, and this leads us to inquire whether,
upon the facts as found by the court, the officers of the gov
ernment did err in awarding the patent to Van Brunt. The
record does not disclose the facts found by the officers.
It is first contended by Warren that the patent should
have been issued to him, because his settlement upon the
disputed premises was both in fact and by the declaratory
statements of the respective parties anterior to that of Van
Brunt, and because by the act of Congress the first settlement gives the better right. It is not important for us to
know what the claims of the parties have been. We must
look to the facts as they actually existed, and from these it
appears that neither of the parties had an advantage over
the other by reason of a prior settlement. They both went
upon the premises at the same time and, for awhile, their
occupancy was joint. After the partition, Van Brunt remained in the house alone. He was there in no respect as
the tenant of Warren, but by reason of his right as part
owner. His short absence after his eviction upon his lands
adjoining, cannot be considered an abandonment of his possession, for he must have been all the time at work upon his
new house, which was finished and ready for occupation in
* 18 WaUae, 72.

t- Page 86.

$ Page 87.

654

WARREN V. VAN BRUNT.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

from two to four weeks. Warren was absent at Mankato,
after the partition, from July until October, and he did not
actually reside himself on the disputed forty acres many
months. He had, therefore, no claim superior to that of
Van Brunt on account of his possession.
It is next insisted that a joint entry of the forty acres by
the two should have been permitted. lNo such demand was
made upon the government by Warren. He claimed the
right to enter the whole, and upon that claim the parties
went to a hearing. He might have asked to make his entry
jointly with Van Brunt, but he did not. He is concluded
by his election made at the time. Having been defeated
upon his claim as made, he cannot, in the absence of fraud
or surprise, come into court and ask relief upon another,
which he might have urged then. Besides, he asks no such
relief in his bill, which is the foundation of the present proceeding. He there claims a superior right of pre-emption
to the whole, and not an equitable right to a joint ownership.
It is again insisted that a decree should have been entered in favor of Warren, charging the heirs .of Van Brunt
as his trustees for all that part of the premises situated on
the east side of the partition-line. This claim was not made
in the bill, but the contract of partition having been set out
in the answers for the purpose of explaining the character
of the occupancy of Van Brunt, Warren asked in his replication to be allowed the benefit of it in case he failed to
maintain his right to the whole. He was willing to repudiate the contract if by so doing he could get an advantage,
but if he failed in that, insisted upon its enforcement. But
such a contract cannot be enforced to any extent. The preemption laws provided, at the time of this entry and purchase, that before any person should be allowed to enter
lands upon a claim for pre-emption he must make oath that
he had not directly or indirectly made any agreement or
contract in any way or manner with any person, by which
the title he might acquire by his purchase should enure in
whole or in part to ihe benefit of any person except himself.

Oct. 1873.]

HEINE

v. THE LEVEE CommISSIoNERS.

655

Statement of the case.

Forfeiture of title to the land purchased, and of the money
paid for it, was made the penalty of false swearing in this
particular. An entry could not have been made, therefore,
by Van Brunt in trust for Warren; and if it could not have
been made, a court of equity will not decree that it was.
All contracts in violation of this important provision of the
act are void and are never enforced. It has been so decided
many times by the Supreme Court of Minnesota.* We are
satisfied with these decisions.
In our opinion, there was no error in the decision of the
government officers, or in the decree of the Supreme Court
of Minnesota.
DECREE AFFIRMED.

]1n1E

v. THE LEVEE CoMMISsIoITERs.

1. There can be no jurisdiction in equity to enforce the payment of corporation bonds until the remedy at law has been exhausted.
2. Where the law has provided that a tax shall be levied to pay such bonds,
a mandamus after judgment to compel the levy of the tax, in the nature
of an execution or process to enforce the judgment, is the only remedy.
3. The fact that this remedy has been shown to be unavailing does not confer
upon a court of equity the power to levy and collect taxes to pay the
debt.
4. The power to levy and collect taxes is a legislative function in this country
and does not belong to a court of equity, and can only be enforced by a
court of law, through the officers authorized by the legislature to levy
the tax, if a writ of mandamus is appropriate to that purpose.
6. Taxes are not liens unless declared so by the legislature under whose authority they are assessed. Still less can a lien be created by the mere
duty to assess taxes, which has not been performed.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court for the District of Louisiana.
This was a suit in chancery brought by Heine and others,
holders of bonds issued by what is called the board of levee
* St. Peter Co. v. Bunker, 5 MYinnesota, 199; Evans v. Folsom, Ib. 422;
Bruggerman v. Hterr, 7 Id. 343; 'cCue v. Smith, 9 Id. 259.

