Oct. 1873.]

PACKET COMPANY V. SIOKLES.

611

Syllabus.

sessing distinct interests in real property may, of course, be
so limited as to prevent a sale of the interest of either separately; but in the absence of qualifying terms, or other circumistances, thus restraining the authority of the attorney, a
power to sell and convey real property, given by several
parties, in general terms, as in the present case, is a power
to sell and convey the interest of each, either jointly with
the interests of the others, or by a separate instrument.
The cases are numerous where a power given by several has
been held invalid as to some of the parties, and yet sufficient
to authorize a transfer of the title of the others. The decision of those cases has proceeded on the doctrine stated,
that where a power is given by several the interest of each
in the property, to which the power refers, may be separately transferred.

It is proper to state that in sustaining the deed executed
in the present case we confine ourselves to its operation in
passing the existing title of Holladay. It contains a covenant
of general warranty, and we express no opinion on the question whether the power authorized the attorney to make any
such covenant for his principal.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

PACKET COMPANY V. SICKLES.
1. Whilst the right to plead the statute of limitations is no more within the
discretion of the court than other pleas, when the refusal of the court
to permit that plea to be filed is based on the allegation that it is not
filed within the time prescribed by the rules of practice adopted in that
court, it is necessary that the party excepting to the refusal shall incorporate the rule in his bill of exceptions, or this court will presume that
the court below construed correctly its own rules.
2. Such rules are indispensabl to the dispatch of business and the orderly
administration of justice, and it must be presumed that the court below
is familiar with the construction and course of practice under them.
3. The rule of damages in actions at law.for infringement of the rights of
p~tentees has long been established in this court to be the customary

PACKET COMPANY V. SICKLES.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.
price at which the patentee has licensed the use of his invention, where
a sufficient number of licenses or sales have been made to establish a
market value.
4. The reason for this rule is still stronger when the use of the patented invention has been with the consent of the patentee, express or implied,
without any rate of compensation fixed by the parties.

ERROR

to the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia.

This suit was part of a litigation of twenty-five years'
standing, which was now in this court for the fourth time.
The controversy arose out of the use by the defendants
below of an improvement in the steam-engine known as the
Sickles cut-off, an apparatus for lifting and tripping the
valves of steam-engines, and also an improved water reservoir and plunger, for which F. E. Sickles, one of the
plaintiffi, had, on the 20th May, 1842, received a patent.
All the trials in the sourt below previous to the one under
review had been founded on a special count, the substantial
allegations of which were that after an experiment to ascertain the saving in fuel due to the use of the patented invention, the defendants would pay to the plaintiffs three-fourths
of the value of said saving of fuel during the existence of
the patent, if the vessel on which it was to be used should
last so long. Very large savings were proved to the satisfaction of juries, and several heavy verdicts and judgments
rendered, which were reversed on different grounds in this
court. The last of these reversals was in the present case,
and is reported in 5th Wallace, 580.
It was there held that this special contract, on which the
case had always been previously tried, was void under the
statute of frauds, because it was not to be performed within
one year and was not in writing. This was in 1867, and
the case being remanded, the plaintiffs, by leave of the court,
filed, on 4th March, 1868, the following amendment to the
declaration:
"The plaintiffs sue the defendants for money payable to the
plaintiffs, for the use of a certain apparatus patented by one F.
B. Sickles on the 20th day o #May, 1842, for lifting and tripping

Oct. 1873.]

PACKET COMPANY V. SICKLES.

613

Statement of the case.

the valves of steam-engines, and also an improved water reser.
voir and plunger.
"And the plaintiffs sue the defendant for money received by
the defendant for the plaintiffs; and the plaintiffs claim $25,000."
To this the defendants, on the 1st day of March, 1871,
three years afterwards, without leave of the court, filed a
plea of non-assumpsit, and two pleas of the statute of limitations. On motion of the plaintiffs the two latter pleas
were stricken from the files, on the ground that not having
been filed within time, according to the rules of the court, the
court would, in furtherance of the ends of justice, refuse to
permit them to stand as part of the issue to be tried.
The defendants excepted; but whether their exception
exhibited to this court in the full, clear, and regular way in
which, according to immemorial practice, it was proper to
exhibit it, the action of the court below, which they wanted
to bring here, was not so clear. The bill of exceptions,
signed by the judge and scaled, ran in this way; the rule of
court which it was said that the defendant had violated, not
being incorporated into the exception, but appearing (just
as it appears on the page of this volume) in a footnote on
the page in the printed transcript; leaving it open, of course,
to a question who put it on the record or transcript, though
not the least question of that sort was made, at any time, in
this case.
"Deposition of Thomas Worthington was read, and it was
shown to the court that a copy of the amended declaration was
served on the attorney of the defendant, but without the notice
to plead required by the rule of court No. 15,* and was as follows: [The exception then set out the amended declaration in
the words already above given.] Nor was any rule to plead, laid
* RULE 15. A notice to plead shall be subscribed to every declaration in
the following form:
"The defendant is to plead hereto on or before the first special term of the court
occurring twenty days after service hereof; otherwise judgment. P. Q. attorney for
plaintiff."
Except this notice to plead, subscribed to the declaration, no rule to plead
or demand of plea shall be necessary.

614

PACKET COMPANY V. SICKLES.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.
in the cause after the amended declaration. Therefore the court
ordered that the second and third pleas be stricken out; to
which ruling the defendant excepts and prays the court to sign,
seal, and cause to be enrolled this its first bill of exceptions,
which is done accordingly, this 2d of March, 1871."
These pleas of the statute being struck out, the case was
tried on the plea of non-assumpsit.
The plaintiff, under objection by the defendant, proved
his special contract, how much fuel had been saved by the
use of his apparatus, and how long the defendant used it.
The defendant excepted to this proof.
The defendant gave evidence to show every sale made
during the existence of the patent, of the license to use the
patent on board of different boats; and that the patent fee
charged to licensees under said sales, which were numerous,
ranged from $250 to $1500, but, on no occasion, exceeded
the latter sum; and further, that the owners of the patent
did not keep the patent-right off the market, but, on the
contrary, availed of all opportunities offered of disposing of
licenses to use the patent.
The defendant, in substance, asked the court to charge,
"That the measure of damages was the established rate for
the license to use their invention, as ascertained by the sale
made by plaintiff of such license to others."
The court refused thus to charge, and charged thus:
"In estimating the amount which the plaintiff is entitled to
recover, the jury will take into consideration the value of the
use of this machine, as far as the proof enables them to ascertain
its value from the sale of the machine itself, from the license of
its use, from the capacity of the machine to economize the expenditure of fuel, in the expression of the power of the engine,
and from any other testimony that they may find developed in
the case bearing upon the value of its use; the conclusion of
value not to be confined to the price of the patent when sold,
the license for its use, or the value of its economies, but to be a
deduction from all, under the rule of equity and justice between
parties dealing with each other in contract, and where it is expected that both are to derive advantages from their dealings."

Oct. 1873.]

PACKET COMPANY V. SICKLES.
Opinion of the court.

To the refusal and to the charge exceptions were taken.
The jury found a verdict of $11,333 with interest, from
the day when the suit was brought, December 11th, 1855, to
the day when the verdict was rendered, March 15th, 1871.
The case was now here on exceptions; errors among others
being assigned:
In striking out the pleas of the statute of limitations.
In admitting evidence to show the saving qualities of the
Sickles apparatus, as compared with others, whose merits
were not shown.
In refusing to instruct the jury as requested that, in an
action for the use of a patented machine, the measure of
damages is the license fee or what others pay for the same
use about the same time.
And in charging the jury in respect of damages as it did.
Messrs. T. J. D. Fuller and W. D. Davidge,for the plaintiff
in error; Afessrs. J. ff. Bradley and -E. N. -Dickerson,contra.
Mr. Justice MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.
The ruling of the court below, in striking out the two
pleas of the statute of limitations, is the ground of the first
exception and of one of the assignment of errors.
The rule of that court is not made a part of the bill of exceptions. What purports to be a rule on the general subject
of notice to plead is put at the bottom of the page in a note,
a mode of making up records on writs of error which is quite
novel. What these rules are cannot be judicially noticed by
this court, and we are much embarrassed as to the effect of
the reference to those rules in the bill of exceptions. The
right to plead the statute of limitations, like any other defence, does not depend on the pleasure or discretion of the
court. And if the action of the court was rested solely on
that ground we should have no hesitation in reversing it.
But there are other considerations to be weighed. The right
of a court to prescribe rules to regulate the time and manner
of filing pleas is beyond question, if they are reasonable, aund

616

PACKET COMPANY V. SICKLES.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

such rules are indispensable to the dispatch of business and
the orderly administration of justice.
When in a bill of exceptions the court places its action on
such rules, with the construction of which, and the course
of practice under them, it must be familiar, it would seem
that the party assigning error on such rulings should be
bound to exhibit in his bill of exceptions so much of the
rule or rules as affects the question. No little weight is
added to these views by the fact that the defendants did not
file their pleas until three years after the filing of the
amended declaration, to which they were answers, and until
the day before the case was tried by the jury. In addition
to this, while it may be true that the amended declaration,
as a general rule, is to be taken as the commencement of
the suit, in reference to the defence of the statute, it may be
doubted whether in this particular case, where, after years
of fierce litigation, only a common count is added, which is
intended to cover the same subject-matter, justice will be
promoted by allowing this plea, which can only be valid by
reason of the time elapsed pending the litigation. On the
whole we do not think, as the case appears before us, that
the exception is well taken.
The case went to trial on the plea of non-assumpsit to the
amended declaration. Evidence was admitted, to which defendants excepted, proving the special contract, the value of
the saving in fuel made by the use of the patented improvement, and the length of time it was in use by defendants.
Evidence was also given by defendants that the plaintiffs
had sold a great many licenses for the use of the patent on
steamboats, that the patent fees were numerous, and ranged
from $250 to $1500 for the use of the patent during its existence, and that though they had produced evidence of all
the sales made of licenses for the use of the patent on steamboats during its existence, the fee in no case exceeded the
latter sum. Notwithstanding this testimony, which seems
to have been uncontradicted, the verdict of the jury and the
jndgment of the court was for $11,333, with interest from
the date of the commencement of the suit.

Oct. 1873.]

PACKET COMPANY V. SICKLES.
Opinion of the court.

The defendants in various forms prayed the court to instruct the jury that the measure of damages was the established rate for the license to use their invention, as ascertained by the sales made by plaintiffs of such license to others.
If this was the true rule of estimating the damage the bill
of exceptions shows that a sufficient number of such licenses,
and the prices at which they were granted, were in evidence
to enable the jury to apply the principle to the case before
them.
And we are of opinion that this was the sound rule, and
that in refusing the prayers for instruction based on it, as
well as in admitting evidence of the saving of fuel and its
value as affecting the amount of the verdict, the court below was in error. And the same error is to be found in the
charge of the court to the jury on that subject.
In the case of Seymour v. McCormick,* this court, on full
consideration, and without dissent, laid down the proposition
that in suits at law for infringement of patents, where the
sale of licenses by the patentee had been sufficient to establish a price for such licenses, that price should be takeli as
the measure of his damages against the infringer. The rule
thus declared has remained the established criterion of damages in cases to which it was applicable ever since.t
"In cases where there is no established patent or license
fee in the case," says the court in the Suffolk Company v.
Rayden, "or even an approximation to it, general evidence
must necessarily be resorted to."
In the case of Seymour v. Me ormick, a charge very similar
to the one given in the present case was held erroneous and
the principles we have stated established.
The rule in suits in equity, of ascertaining by a reference
to a master the profits which the defendant has made by the
use of the plaintiff's invention, stands on a different principle. It is that of converting the infringer into a trustee
for the patentee as regards the profits thus made; and the
* 16 Howard, 480.

f Sickels v. Borden, 4 Blatchford, 14; The Suffolk Company v. Hayden,
8 Wallace, 315; Livingston v. Jones, 3 Wallace, Jr., 330.

PACKET COMPANY V. SICKLES.

[Sup. Ot.

Opinion of the court.

adjustment of these profits is subject to all the equitable
considerations which are necessary to do complete justice
between the parties, many of which would be inappropriate
in a trial by jury. With these corrective powers in the
hands of the chancellor, the rule of assuming profits as the
groundwork for estimating the compensation due from the
infringer to the patentee has produced results calculated to
suggest distrust of its universal application even in courts
of equity.
Certainly any unnecessary relaxation of the rule we have
laid down in cases at law, where the patentee has been in
the habit of selling his invention or license to use it, so that
a fair deduction can be made as to the value which le and
those using it have established for it, does not commend itself
to our judgment, nor is it encouraged by our experience.
If such be the proper rule in case of the infringer who
uses the invention without license and against the consent
of the owner, it should not be harsher against the party who
uses it with consent of the owner, express or implied, but
without any agreement as to the rate of compensation. In
such case nothing can be more reasonable than that the price
fixed by the patentee for the use of his invention, in his
dealings with others, and submitted to by them before using
it, should govern.
The case was tried in the court below upon an entirely
different theory, against the steady remonstrance and exceptions of the defendants.
With the special contract eliminated from the case, it
seems to us to be a very simple one. The defendants have
used, or are charged with using, the invention of plaintiffs,
with their consent, until the expiration of the patent. If
this is proven to the satisfaction of the jury, the plaintiffs
have furnished the rule which must measure their compensation, in the prices at which they have sold the same privilege to others, and they must be bound by it.
JuDGMErT

REVERSED,

with directions to order
A NEW

TRIAL.

