ROBERTSON V. CARSON.

[Sup. Ct.

Syllabus.

ever, empowered the commissioners to "dispose of the bonds
to such persons or corporation as they should deem most
advantageous forthe town, but not for less than par." And
it required them not to pay over "a n y money or bonds" to
the railroad corporation until certain satisfactory assurances
should be furnished them. Thus it appears that delivery of

the bonds to the railroad company was contemplated and
authorized.
There is, therefore, no error in the record, and the judgment is
AFFIRMED.

ROBERTSON V. CARSON.
A. and B., executors in South Carolina, and authorized by their testator to
sell all his real and personal estate, and to pay the proceeds to the testator's sons, sold the lands to C. on mortgage. C. wishing to pay the
mortgage, A. received the amount of it from him in notes of the socalled "Confederate States," surrendered the instrument and entered
satisfaction upon it. C. sold the property (whether with warranty or
without did not appear) to D. E. & Co., a mercantile firm, composed
of the said D. and . and three other persons, including F.; the deed,
however, being made to D. and E. individually, upon such uses as they
should appoint, and until they did appoint to the use of the whole five
partners, according to their interests in the firm. F. afterwards retired
from the firm, transferring, in consideration of a sum of money to be
paid, his interest in the firm to his remaining partners; and D. and E.,
in order to secure the payment to F. of the sum of money, appointing
the land to the use of him, F.
The executors sold the personal estate also to C., who bad bought the real;
this sale of the personal being on credit, and X. becoming C.'s surety to
the executors for payment of the price.
In August, 1866-the notes of the" Confederate States " being now wholly
worthless-the sons of the testator (or rather their mother, to whom
they had transferred all their interests in their father's estate) filed a
bill (charging fraud and conspiracy) against the executors (A. and B.),
against D. (one of the trustees to whom C. had conveyed in trust for
the firm), and against X. (the surety of C. in the matter of the personal
property)--nobody else being brought in-to charge the executors with all
moneys received by them, to reinstate and establish the mortgage given
by C., and to hold X. liable as surety in the matter of the price of the
personal property.

Oct. 1873.]

RoBERTSON V. CARSON.
Statement of the case.

Held, that the bill could not be sustained, that 0. (the purchaser from the
executors), and E. (the co-trustee with D.), were indispensable parties,
and that if it was intended to conclude F. (in case he did not get his
money from his partners) from proceeding on the mortgage given to
him to secure its payment and raising anew the question of the validity
of the sale of the real estate to C., and of that by him to D. and E., he
was to be made a party also.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court for the District of South
Carolina; the case being thus:
William Carson, of South Carolina, died in August, 1856,
somewhat indebted, but possessed of considerable real and
personal estate, including a plantation called Dean Hall, and
leaving a widow, Caroline, and two minor sons, William and
James. By his will he appointed two persons, named Robertson and Blacklock, his executors, and directed all his
estate to be sold by them on such terms as they should deem
judicious; and the proceeds, after payment of his debts, to
be divided into three parts, all "to be held in trust" by his
executors; the interest of one-third to be paid to his widow,
and the interest of the other two to be devoted to the support of his sols till they came of age, and the principal to
be then paid to them.
The executors, soon after his death and near the close of
the year 1856, sold Dean Hall to one Elias Nonus Ball, most
of the purchase-money being in the form of a purchasemoney mortgage reserved to them as executors. Ball, in
1863, the rebellion being now in full action, agreed to sell
it to a firm trading under the name of Hyatt, MeBurney &
Co., and which was composed of five persons, to wit, Hyatt
and MeBurney, aforesaid, and three other persons named,
respectively, Gillespie, Hazelton, and McGann. Hyatt,
McBurney & Co. paid the purchase-money in "Confederate
States" notes, the usual currency during the rebellion of
South Carolina. With this Ball paid off his bonds to the
executors, and Robertson, one of them, surrendered his
bonds and entered satisfaction on the mortgage. Ball
then conveyed the plantation (by what kind of deed as respected warranty did not appear), to McBurney and Gil-

0RoBERTSON

V.

CAR

N.

ESup. Ot

Statement of the case.

lespie, two partners, as already said, of Hyatt, MeBurney &
Co., "to such uses as they or the survivors of them should
appoint, and until such appointment to the use of the said
Hyatt, Hazelton, McGann, McBurney, and Gillespie, partners, trading as Hyatt, McBurney & Co., according to their
respective interests in the partnership."
Hyatt, some time after, by deed, bearing date 8th May,
1863, released his interest in the plantation, and on the lastnamed day, Hyatt retiring from the partnership, McBurney
and Gillespie appointed the plantation to his use to secure a
bond of the remaining partners to him for $40,000, given
for the purchase of his interest in the partnership. Hyatt
was and now is a ciLizen of New York. Gillespie so also, apparently. Hazelton was domiciled at Liverpool, England;
and McGann then, as now, was a citizen of South Carolina.
Ball, the purchaser, was a citizen of New Jersey.
The executors, at the time they sold the plantation to
Ball, sold to him also certain personal property. This was
sold on credit, and one W. J. Ball became jointly bound
with the said E. N. Ball, and as his surety for the payment
of the price of it.
MeBurney and Gillespie remained in possession of Dean
Hall until August, 1866, when the two sons of Carson having
reached their majority, and having transferred all their interest in their father's estate to their mother, his widow, she,
describing herself as a citizen of New York, filed a bill in
the court below against the executors (Robertson and Blacklock), against E. N. Ball, W. J. Ball, MeBurney, and the two
sons Carson; these two being made parties apparently for
mere form. But from a *fear perhaps of ousting the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court, if it made them parties, the bill
did not attempt to make either Hyatt, who, as already said,
like the complainant, was a citizen of the State of New York,
Gillespie, Hazelton, or McGann (the four persons who, with
MeBurney, constituted the firm of Hyatt & MeBurney, and
for whose use along with that of McBurney, the plantation
had been conveyed when conveyed to Hyatt & McBurney),
parties to the bill. And of those whom it sought to make

Oct. 1873.]

RoBERTSON V.

CARSON.

Statement of the case.

parties, only Robertson and Blacklock (the executors), and
McBurney and W. J. Ball were served. The purchaser, -Elias
Nonus Ball, was not served. [The same was true as to the
sons Carson, though these last were, as already said, added
for form only, and the omission to serve them was obviously
unimportant.]
The purpose of the bill was:
As respected the executors, to make them account in good
money, for the proceeds of the sales which they had made,
if the sales should stand:
As respected the defendant McBurney, to set aside his
purchase and re-establish the mortgage given by E. N. Ball
to the executors, upon the ground that he, McBurney, paid no
valuable consideration for his purchase; that the pretended
payment of his bond by Ball, the mortgagor and purchaser
from the executors, and the release and satisfaction of the
mortgage was procured by him without valuable consideration, and was a breach of their trust by the executors. That
MeBurney aided and procured the executors to commit the
breach of trust, and with full knowledge of the same, became possessed of Dean Hall without any valuable consideration passing from him to Ball, or from Ball to the executors, and that he should, in equity, be declared to hold
the premises for the benefit of the complainant:
And as respected W. J. Ball, to make him respond as
surety for the debt of E. IN.Ball, incurred in the purchase
of the personal property.
The executors, MeBurney, and W. J. Ball, answered, setting up:
1st. .Matter of form. That Hyatt, Hazelton, Gillespie,
MeGann, and Elias NTonus Ball were indispensable parties
to the bill; the answer of W. J. Ball alleging in addition,
and in regard to the sale of the personal property bought
by -E.N. Ball, that he, the respondent, was but a surety, and
that the said E. Nb.Ball was the principal debtor, and the
person alone acquainted with the facts of the case.
2d. Merits. That the payments were made in money that
was universally current in the "South, money which had
VOL. XIX.

7

ROBERTSON V. CARSON.

[Sup. 0t.

Statement of the case.

value, and which was received on deposit in all the banks
of South Carolina at the time; that in fact the payments
were made in checks on the Bank of South Carolina. It
alleged further, that with this same money received the executors had paid off the debts of their testator.
The court below (Chase, C. J., presiding) with some hesitation overruled the objection as to parties,* observing that
"it would be a positive wrong for the Circuit Court to turn
from its -doors a suitor in another State, seeking a remedy
against citizens in this State, and thus deny to her, upon a
doubtful question in reference to parties, a right secured to
her by the Constitution ;" and that the court would "strain
a point in favor of the constitutional right of citizens of the
several States to sue the citizens of other States in the courts
of the United States."
On the merits it decreed that the surrender of the bonds
of E. N. Ball by Robertson, the executor, and the satisfactiol of the mortgage of Dean Hall, were done in breach of
his duty as trustee, and were null and void; that the obligations were not discharged; that the mortgage of Dean Hall
was a valid and subsisting mortgage, and that the complainant was entitled to the bonds and to enforce the mortgage
as a security for the same. And after finding a certain sum
due as principal of the mortgage, it decided that if the debt
and interest were not paid by a day named, the plantation
should be sold by the marshal under foreclosure.
On the 15th of June, 1872, that is to say, after the date
of filing the bill in this case, and indeed after the decree
made, Congress, by "An act to further the administrationof
justice," enacted as follows:t
"SECTION 13. That when, in any suit in equity.., to enforce
any legal or equitable lien or claim against real or personal property within the district where such suit is brought, one or more
of the defendants therein shall not be an inhabitant of or found
within the said district,... it shall be lawful for the court to
make an order directing such absent defendant to appear, plead,
* 2 American Law Times Reports, 116.

t" 17 Star. at Large, 198,

Oct. 1873.]

ROBERTSON V.

CARSON.

Argument for the appellants.

answer, or demur, to the complainant's bill at a certain day
therein to be designated; which order shall be served on such
absent defendant, if practicable, wherever found; or, where such
personal service is not practicable, such order shall be published
in such manner as the court shall direct, and in case such absent
defendant shall not appear, plead, answer, or demur, within the
time so limited,

. . .

it shall be lawfhl for the court to entertain

jurisdiction, and proceed to the hearing and adjudication of
such suit in the same manner as if such absent defendant had
been served with process within the said district," &c.
-1r. Edward Mc O-eady and Mr.Edward He Cready, Jr., for
the appellants, charging multifariousness and great disorder
on the bill, argued that there was plain error in the action
of the court below:
1. In overruling the objection as to parties. They contended
that the objection under the aspect of one of form was
really one of substance, and of great substance; the property
and rights and character of Elias Non us Ball being certainly
involved, and none the less certainly involved or the less
completely because they were not directly involved; that if
the complainant succeeded in this suit he, E. N. Ball, who
was the principal debtor in the bond for the personal property, would have to pay what his surety had paid for him;
while as to the real estate, since fraud and collusion were
charged, to which he was averred to be a party, he would
have to pay the amount whether his deed to MeBurney
and Gillespie contained a warranty or not.
Then, the conveyance to MeBurney and Gillespie, was to
them both in trust; to Gillespie as much as to the other.
MlcBurney was brought in by the bill and Gillespie was left
out. Why was this done? Being co-trustees, one was as
important as the other. If MeBurney had died, the legal
estate would have survived to Gillespie. In truth, to be in
a form perfectly regular, not only the trustees but the cestuis
que trust, iazelton and McGann, should have been made
parties. On the payment of Hyatt's claim against the four
partners, the interest of all four in the estate would come
into action.

ROBERTSON V.

CARSON.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the appellees.

But Hyatt especially ought to be made a party. He had
released his interest in the land immediately after the purchase, and the trustees had appointed a use of Dean Hall to
secure the bond of the other partners, given to secure the
price of the purchase of his interest in the firm.
The copartnership of which Hyatt was a member expired
on the 81st of May, 1863, and he then sold his interest in
the firm to the other partners and retired from business.
His interest in the plantation was only by the mortgage
upon it, which he held under the appointment from the
trustees, to secure the bond of his late copartners.
As the record now stood, no decree upon it in favor of
the complainant could end the litigation. Hyatt was free
to bring his bill to foreclose his mortgage of Dean Hall, and
Hazelton, Gillespie, and McGann free to bring their actiou
in ejectment against any person who might purchase at the
sale prayed for.
The case was not one where the doctrine of one partner
representing the firm applies. Here was a conveyance to
trustees; not to the firm, but to two individuals.
2. In regard to the merits. The counsel argued that MeBurney was a purchaser for value; that the case showed no
fraud, and that the whole transaction was in the then ordinary course of business in the South, and that the bills of
the Confederate States were not then valueless-far from it;
and that the payments were protected by the cases in this
court of Thorington v. Smith,* .Delmas v. Insurance Company,t
and Planters' Bank v. Union Bank..
. Boyce, with whom was
Messrs. James Lowndes and W.
Mr. Caleb Cushing, for the appellees:
1. As to parties. The Federal courts, sitting in equity, are
exceptionally liberal in dispensing with parties, and for two
obvious reasons. The first is the limitation upon their jurisdiction by the citizenship of parties; the other is the
limitation upon their jurisdiction by their inability (until the
* 8 Wallace, 1.

f14 Id. 661.

$16 Id. 483.

Oct. 1873.']

O OBERTSON v. CARSON.
Argument for the appellees.

statute of 1872) of bringing in parties by publication. The
narrowing effect upon their jurisdiction of these limitations
has led them to enlarge the rule as to parties.*
In pursuance of this liberal policy, the courts have acted
upon this principle, viz., that where a party, not before the
court, is not an inhabitant of or found within the district
where the suit is brought, the court will proceed without
such party, unless he is an indispensable party, or one whose
rights are necessarilyaffected by the decree.
There are three classes of parties: 1. Formal parties. 2.
Necessary or convenient parties. 3. Indispensable parties.
The Federal courts dispense with parties of the first two
classes.
The parties dispensed with in Payne v. .Hookt and in
Traders' Bank v. Campbell,. were directly affected in their
interests by the decrees; and they were in a stronger sense
"necessary parties" than those whose absence is objected
to in this case.
To apply these principles to the case, Ball passed all his
interest in Dean Hall to McBurney and Gillespie by his
deed. Ball's presence would be convenient to the defendants, because they might make their claim over against
him. But he is only a convenient party, and his convenience is to the defendants. A stronger case than this is
that of a mortgagor making a second mortgage; but by the
statutes in South Carolina he need not be made a party.ยง
The case of Caldwell v. Garrington,11 was a case similar to
this.
Gillespie, in his character of co-trustee with McBurney,
is not an indispensable party. The other trustee, McBurney, is before the court, and fully represents the trust estate.
If Gillespie came in, he would have nothing to do but to
sign McBurney's answer. An absent co-trustee is not an
indispensable party.
Mallow v. Hinde, 12 Wheaton, 198; Eberlyv. Moore, 24 Howard, 158.
1 14 Id. 94.
t 7 Wallace, 431.
9 Peters, 86.
General Statutes, 389.
West v. Randall, 2 Mason, 191.

ROBERTSON V.

CARSON.

[Slip. Ct.

Argument for the appellees.

Hyatt, McGann, Hazelton, and Gillespie, in their character of copartners of Hyatt, MeBurney & Co., are not indispensable parties. They are cestuis que trust, under the
conveyance to MeBurney and Gillespie, and their trustee,
McBurney, who is before the court, fully represents them.
By the forty-ninth rule in equity, the trustee under a devise
of realty is the proper party to defend a suit affecting it.
This case is an analogous one. It is decided that a copartner is not an indispensable party; a partner before the court
being taken to represent sufficiently the others.* At law,
service on one copartner is sufficient in. South Carolina.t
Suits like this are within the reason of that rule. The property is realty; a fact which makes the case stronger than
Payne v. Hook, or than Traders' Bank v. Campbell.
McBurney and Gillespie exercised their power of appointment by mortgaging Dean Hall to Hyatt. Is, then, Hyatt,
as mortgagee, an indispensable party? The mortgage was
simply a copartnership transaction. It amounted, in fact, to
nothing more than setting aside in severalty Hyatt's share
in the assets of Hyatt, McBurney & Co. The equitable lien
which Hyatt had on the copartnership assets, for his share
on an account with his copartners, was as sufficient a security to him as the mortgage. The mortgage was idle, for
Hyatt's lien existed antecedently to it and independently of
it. There was no new consideration given for the mortgage
by Hyatt, and he is therefore not, by virtue of the mortgage,
a purchaser for value. It would be great hardship to hold
him to be an indispensable party, by reason of a supposed
deed which did not materially change his rights.
There is another principle observed by the Federal courts
of equity, viz., that where the joinder of a party will oust
the court of its jurisdiction, it will go very far in dispensing
with parties.t
it is on this principle that the Chief Justice rested his decree overruling the objection to want of parties in this case.
j- 7 Statutes, 281.
West v. Randall, 2 Mason, 191.
West v. Randall, 2 Mason, 196; Payne v. Hook, 7 Wallace, 431.

Oct. 1873.]

ROBERTSON

V. CARSON.

Recapitulation of the case in the opinion.

Hyatt and Gillespie being both citizens of New York, where
the complainant, Mrs. Carson, also has her domicile, to order
them to be made parties is to send the complainant out of
the Federal courts. To send her out of those courts is, in
consequence of the decisions of the State courts of South
Carolina on this class of questions, to take away from hei
all redress.
Since the decree was rendered in this case, an act of Con.
gress* has provided that absent defendants may be brougrh.
into the United States courts by publication. If this cou t
holds that this act so enlarges the jurisdiction of the Federal
courts as to allow the absent parties in this case to be
brought in, then the rule laid down in Pugh v. .cCormickt
will apply, viz., that this court will not send back a case
when, by reason of a new statute, the decree appealed from
has ceased to be error.
To sustain the decree is not to adjudicate the rights of any
one in his absence. Its effect would only be to place the appellee in possession of lands as against those now actually in
possession. The absent claimants are in noways concluded.
2. The question of merits was argued fully; the counsel
contending, among other things, that the executors (after
the sale converted into trustees) were bound to hold the
proceeds of sale; that the Confederate States had never.
attempted to make their notes a legal tender; and that, as
frequently decided, of late, in South Carolina, the so-called
payment was no payment at all.
Mr. Justice SWAYKE delivered the opinion of the court.
We have not found it necessary to come to any conclusion

as to the merits of the case. Aside from that subject, there
is an insuperable difficulty arising from the want of parties.
A brief statement will be sufficient to show the foundation
upon which this objection rests.
William Carson by his will, after ce'tain other bequests,
directed his executors, Robertson and Blacklock, to sell all
*17

Stat. at :Large, 198,

13.

t] 14 "Wallace, 361.

ROBERTSON V.

CARSON.

[Sup. Ct.

Rtecapitulation of the case in the opinion.

his real and personal property, and after paying his just
debts, to hold the residue of the proceeds upon the trusts
prescribed, for his widow, Caroline Carson, and his two
children, William and James Carson. The executors were
authorized to invest and reinvest as they should deem best.
They sold a plantation known as Dean Hall, to Elias N. Ball,
and took his bonds for the purchase-money, secured by a
mortgage upon the premises. They sold also a large amount
of personal property to the same Elias N. Ball, and took
his bonds for the proceeds, with W. J. Ball as his surety.
Elias N. Ball sold the Dean Hall property to Hyatt, McBurney & Co. The firm consisted of Hyatt, MeBurney, Gillespie, Hazelton, and McGann. The property was conveyed
to MeBurney and Gillespie, to be held by them for themselves and for such uses as they should appoint for the benefit of the other members of the firm. They paid Ball in
Confederate money, and he paid his debt to the estate of
Carson in the same medium. Robertson, one of the executors, thereupon gave up his bonds and released the
mortgage. The legatees, William and James Carson, after
reaching the age of majority, assigned all their rights under
the will to the complainant, who is the widow of the testator.
The bill charges that the transaction between Hyatt, McBur.ney & Co., E. N. Ball, and Robertson, the executor, was
fraudulent and void. It seeks to charge the Dean Hall property with the amount of the debt secured by the mortgage,
and to call Elias N. Ball and his surety to account upon
their obligations for the proceeds of the personal property.
The parties defendant made by the bill are the executors,
Robertson and Blacklock, and MeBurney, Elias N. and W.
J. Ball, and William 'and James Carson. Process was returned not found, as to William and James Carson and
Elias N. Ball. The two former having assigned all their
rights and interest to everything in controversy, it was not
necessary to make thmm parties. Nothing more need be
said in regard to them.* But as the pleadings stand, the
*Garrett v. Puckett, 15 Indiana, 485; Whitney v. McKinney, 7 1ohnson's
Gdhancery, 147.

Oct. 1873.1

SIOBERTSON V. OARSON.
Opinion of the court.

presence of Elias N. Ball was necessary in both aspects of
the case.
First. As to the personal property:
The bill does not aver that he is insolvent, and gives no
reason why he should not or cannot be brought before the
court. The answer of W. J. Ball takes the objection of his
absence and alleges that he represents the debt to be paid.
The surety is entitled to have him present that he may assist
in making this defence, that he may assist in taking the
account of what is due if the defence fail, that the decree
in that event may be primarily against him for payment,
and that the amount may be conclusively fixed for which
he will be liable over to the surety, if the latter should be
compelled to pay the debt.*
Secondly. As to the real estate:
The bill charges fraud and conspiracy, and that he was a
party to them. It denies that the mortgage was paid, alleges that the bonds are still in force, avers that the release.
was a nullity, and seeks to enforce the mortgage.
If these allegations are maintained, the whole amount of
the debt will be rehabilitated against him. He is entitled
to an opportunity to repel these imputations and to protect
himself if he can do so. His vendees are entitled to his aid.
His defence is their defence. It does not appear whether
his deed to MeBurney and Gillespie contains the usual covenants of title. If so, he would be liable over to his grantees
in the event of the mortgage being enforced. This would
be an additional reason for his being a party when the case
is disposed of.
The general rule is that a mortgagor who has parted with
his interest in the mortgaged premises need not be a party
in a suit for foreclosure, unless he has warranted the title to
his assignee. Whether there were such warranty by Ball,
* Story's Equity Pleadings,
169; Madox v. Jackson, 3 Atkyns, 406:
Angerstein v. Olark, 2 Dickens, 738; Cockburn v. Thompson, 16 Vesey, 326,
Bland v. Winter, ] Simons & Stuart, 246.

1ZOBERTSON

V. CARSON.

[Sup. Ct

Opinion of the court.

or not, we hold him to be an indispensable party by reason
of the circumstances of the case.*
Gillespie was one of the grantees in the deed of E. N.
Ball. The legal title was vested by that instrument in him
and MeBurney, and there is no averment that they do not
yet hold it. This renders Gillespie an indispensable party.t
It appears that Hyatt has released his interest to his copartners, but it also appears that they have given him a
mortgage upon the premises to secure the payment of
$40,000. If he shall not be made a party, and the complainant shall be successful, his rights will not be affected
by the decree. In such case he can file a new and independent bill and renew the litigation as to all the questions
touching the prior mortgage which are involved in this controversy.1
The complainant has the option to make him a party or
to proceed without him and take the hazard of the consequences.
The statute of South Carolina referred to by the counsel
for the appellee, does not affect the case.
The act of Congress of June 1, 1872, was passed several
years after this bill was filed. The thirteenth section has,
therefore, no application to the question of parties in this
litigation.
It is competent for a party to make a change of domicile
for the purpose of giving jurisdiction to the Federal courts
where it could not otherwise exist. With that privilege and
the help of this section, there can hardly in any case be an
* Calvert on Parties, 179; Milroy v. Stockwell, 1 Carter, 35; Haines v.
Beach, 3 Johnson's Chancery, 459; Worthington v. Lee, 2 Bland, 682;
Ducker v. Belt, 3 Maryland Chancery, 13; Hallock v. Smith, 4 Johnson's
Chancery, 649; Bigelow v. Bush, 6 Paige, 343; Drury v. Clark, 16 Howard's
Practice Reports, 424.
t Watson v. Spence, 20 Wendell, 260; Story's Equity Pleading, 192, 197;
Barber on Parties, 463, 491; Shaw v. Hloadley, 8 Backford, 165; Betts v.
Starr, 5 Connecticut, 551.
Haines v. Beach, 3 Johnson's Chancery, 459; Ensworth v. Lambert,
H
4 Id. 605; Judson v. Emanuel, 1 Alabama N. S. 598; Brainard v. Cooper,
10 New York, 356; Story's Equity Pleadings, 192.

Oct. 1873.]

REES V.

CITY oF WATERTOWN.

Statement of the case.

irremediable difficulty as to jurisdiction, however diversified
the residence of those necessary to be made defendants.
This record is in a singularly defective and confused condition. The allegations in the bill lack clearness and precision. This has perhaps arisen from the want of full and
accurate information until the coming in of the answers.
There are important averments on both sides unsupported
by evidence. Important papers are referred to, but copies
are not given, and there is no proof of their contents. There
are many matters of detail of no moment to the rights of
the parties which should be expunged. If there were no
defect of parties, we should have great difficulty in disposing
of the case upon the pleadings and proofs before us. If the
case shall be brought here again, these objections, it is to be
hoped, will in the meantime be obviated.
DECREE REVERSED, and the cause remanded, with directions to proceed

IN CONFORMITY TO
THIS OPINION.

REES V. CITY OF WATERTOWN.
Although a mandamus, and alias mandamus, and pluries mandamus, commanding a city to levy and collect a tax upon the taxable property of
its citizens in it, to pay judgments which the relator in the mandamus
has obtained against it, have all, in consequence of the devices of the
city authorities, such as resignation of their offices, &c., proved unavailing to compel the levy and collection of the tax, and though "the prospect of future success" by the same writ "is perhaps not flattering,"
the Federal courts sitting in equity do not possess power to appoint the
marshal to levy and collect the tax, nor to subject the taxable property
situate within the corporate limits of the city in any way to an assessment in order to pay the judgment.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court for the Western District
of Wisconsin; the case being thus:
lees, a citizen of Illinois, being owner of certain bonds
issued under authority of an act of the legislature of the State

