490

TAPPAN V. MERCHANTS' NATIONAL BANK.

[Sup. Ct.

Syllabus.

there is no reason for holding in such cases, that the act of
1790 does not give to the prosecution an unrestricted choice
of districts.
As regards the defendant, the provision, in any sense, is
merely positive.
On the other hand, it seems unreasonable to say that the
statute meant to compel prosecutor and witnesses, and perhaps the ship besides, to lay up, at a quarantine anchorage as
here, or as the case might make it, at a port of refuge or
of repair, merely because they were so unfortunate as accidentally to be on a ship with a felon.
We, therefore, suggest, under this branch of the argument, that the first and fourth questions certified be answered
in the affirmative, and the second and third, in the negative.
-No opposing counsel.
Mr. Justice CLIFFORD delivered the opinion of the court.
Instead of answering separately the questions certified
here, I am instructed to say, that the court, upon the facts
alleged in the plea, is of the opinion, that the Circuit Court
for the Southern District of New York had jurisdiction ia
this case, and that the court directs that this statement be
certified to the Circuit Court as the only answer require I to
the several questions presented on the record.

TAPPAN, COLLECTOR,

V.

MEROHANTS'

NATIONAL BANK.

I. Shares of stock in the National banks are personal property, and though
they are a species of personal property which, in one sense, is intangible
and incorporeal, the law which created them could separate them from
the person of their owner for the purpose of taxation, and give them a
situs of their own.

2. The forty-first section of the National Banking Act of June 3d, 1864which in effect provided that all shares in such banks, held by any person or body corporate, may be included in the valuation of the personal
property of such person or corporation in the assessment of taxes im-

Oct. 1873.]

TAPPAN

V.

MERCHANTS'

NATIONAL BANK.

491

Statement of the case.

posed under State authority, at the place where the bank is located, and
not elsewhere-did this.
8. This provision of the National Banking Act became a law of the property, and every State within which a National bank was afterwards
located acquired jurisdiction, for the purposes of taxation, of all the
shareholders of the bank, both resident and non-resident, and of all its
shares, and power to legislate accordingly.
4. Nothing in Article IX, in the constitution of Illinois, of 1848, and which
was still existing in 1867, prevented the legislature of the State from
providing for the taxation of the owners of shares of the capital stock
of a National bank in that State, at the place, within the State, where
the bank was located, without regard to their places of residence.
6. The act of the said legislature, passed June 13th, 1867, so providing, was
valid under the said constitution.
APPEAL

from the Circuit Court for the Northern District

of Illinois, in which court the Merchants' National Batik of
Chicago-a bank incorporated under the "Z ct to provide a
National currency," &c., approved June 3d, 1864,* and having
its banking-house and carrying on its operations of discount
and deposit in the town of South CIicago, Cook County, Illinois-filed a bill against one Tappan, collector of county
and municipal taxes, in the said town of South Chicago, Cook
County, to enjoin his collection of such taxes upon any of
the shares of stock in the said bank, assessed under a statute of Illinois, passed June 13th, 1867.
Some shares of the bank were held by persons resident in
the said town of South Chicago, Cook County, where, as
already said, the bank itself was situated, and where Tappan,
the collector of taxes for that town, resided; but many were
held by persons who, though residing in Illinois, did not
reside in the town of South Chicago or in the county of
Cook at all, but resided out of both; and many were held by
persons who did not reside in the State of Illinois at all, but
resided in other States altogether.
The grounds upon which the bill was filed were apparently
that, under the constitution of Illinois, the taxes were not
validly laid on the residents of the State who resided out of
the town of South Chicago and out of the county of Cook;
* 13 Stat. at Large, 99.

492

TAPPAN V. MERCHANTS' NATIONAL IBANK.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

that therefore, under that constitution, which required uniformity of taxation, in respect to persons and property within
the jurisdiction of the body imposing the same, there were
no taxes laid on the shares of any persons resident in the
town of South Chicago or in the county of Cook; and of
course therefore no taxes on any shareholders resident anywhere in Illinois; and as the act of Congress authorizing a
taxation by the State of shares in the National banks, owned
by persons who were not residents of such State, declared
that there should be no tax imposed on them which was not
imposed on residents of the State, there was no tax laid on
any shareholders anywhere.
The whole matter, it is thus obvious, turned upon the
validity of the tax laid under the State act of June 13th,
1867, upon the shares of residents of Illinois who resided
out of Cook County and out of the town of South Chicago.
The case, as respected the constitution of Illinois, the
State act of June 13th, 1867, laying the tax, and the provisions of the National Banking Act, or, to call it by its title,
the "Act to provide a National Currency," &c., was thus:
The constitution of Illinois (adopted A.D. 1848) ordains"ARTICLE IX.

"SECTION 2. The General Assembly shall provide for levying
a tax by valuation, so that every person and corporation shall
pay a tax in proportion to the value of his or her property, such
value to be ascertained by some person or persons to be elected
or appointed in such manner as the General Assembly shall
direct and not otherwise.
"SECTION 5. The corporate authorities of counties, townships,
school districts, cities, towns, and villages, may be vested with
power to assess and collect taxes for corporate purposes, such
taxes to be uniform in respect to persons and property, within the
jurisdiction of the body imposing the same. And the General
Assembly shall require that all the property within the limits
of municipal corporations, belonging to individuals, shall be
taxed for the payment of debts contracted under authority of
law."
This provision of fundamental law being in force in Illi-

Oct. 1873.]

TAPPAN V. MERCHANTS' NATIONAL

BANK.

493

Statement of the case.

nois, Congress passed, June 3d, 1864, the "Act to provide a
National currency,"* already mentioned. This act, after
providing for the formation of associations for the purpose
of banking, declares:
12. The capital stock of any association formed
shall be divided into shares of $100 each, and be
act
under this
property and transferableon the books of the assopersonal
deemed
ciation."
"SEcTION 40. The president and cashier of every association,
shall cause to be kept at all times, a fall and correct list of the
names and residences of all the shareholders in the association, and
the number of shares held by each; . . . and such list shall be
subject to the inspection of all the officers authorized to assess taxes
under State authority.
"SECTION 41. Nothing in this act shall be construed to prevent all the shares in any of the said associations held by any
person or body corporate from being included in the valuation
of the personal property of such person or corporation in the
assessment of taxes imposed by or under State authority, at the
place where such bank is located and not elsewhere; but not at a
greater rate than is assessed upon other moneyed capital in the
hands of individual citizens of such State."
"SECTION

Subsequently to the passage, by Congress, of this National
Banking Act, the State of Illinois passed the act of June
13th, 1867, under which the tax now resisted was laid.
It enacted:
"No tax shall be assessed upon the capital of any bank or
any banking association, organized under the authority of this
State, or organized under the authority of the lJnited States;
and located within this State.
" But the stockholders in such banks or banking associations
shall be assessed and taxed on the value of their shares of stock
therein in the county, town, or district where such bank or
banking association is located, and not elsewhere, whether such
stockholder reside in such town, county, or district, or not, but not at
any greater rate than is or may be assessed upon other moneyed
capital in the hands of individuals in this State."
* 13 Stat. at Large, 102.

494

TAPPAN V. MERCHANTS' NATIONAL BANK.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

Before the passage of the act just above quoted, question
had arisen as to the meaning in the forty-first section of the
National Banking Act of the words "at the place where the
bank is located." Some courts, like those of Maine, supposed that Congress meant that the shares should be assessed
in and for the benefit of the taxing district.* Other courts,
like those of Pennsylvania and Massachusetts,t were of a
different opinion, holding that the expression meant the
State and not the taxing district. Accordingly Congress,
by an act of February 10th, 1868, enacted :1
"That the words 'place where the bank is located and not elsewhere,' in section 41 of the 'Act to provide a National currency,'
approved June 3d, 1864, shall be construed to mean 'the State
within which the bank is located.' And the legislature of each
State may determine and direct the manner and place of taxing
all the shares of National banks located within said State, subject to the restriction that the taxation shall not be at a greater
rate than is assessed upon other moneyed capital in the hands
of individual citizens of such State. And provided always, that
the shares of any National bank owned by non-residents of any
State shall be taxed in the city or town where said bank is located,
and not elsewhere."
The bill filed by the bank, after setting out the facts of
non-residence, &c., already stated, and the violation of the
Constitution in levying the tax complained of, and a threat
of the collector to sell the stock of the bank, if the taxes
claimed were not paid, alleged, by way of giving a jurisdiction in equity, that the shareholders refused to pay the taxes
and forbade the payment of them by the bank, and threatened a multiplicity of suits against the bank in case it paid
them, or in case it deducted the amount thereof from any
dividends upon the stock; that if the collector sold the
stock irreparable damage would be done to the stockholders;
that the bank was the trustee of its stockholders, and as such
* Opinions of the Justices of the Supreme Court, 53 Maine, 594.

t Markoe v. Hartranft, 6 American Law Register, N. S. 490; A astin v.
The Aldermen, 14 Allen, 364.
$ 15 Stat. at Large, 34.

Oct.

1873.]

TAPPAN V. MEICIIANTS' NATIONAL BANK. 495
Argument against the tax.

entitled to protect their interests; and that a sale of their
stock would prejudice the bank in the public mind, and
work damage to it incapable of remedy at law.
The court below on demurrer to the bill for want of

equity,- disregarding the technical objection (for which
.Dows v. The City of Chicago* was cited as authority), that the
bank had no power to interfere in the way in which it had
done, in behalf of its stockholders,-and considering that the
law of Illinois laying the tax was in violation of its constitution, decreed ail injunction. From that decree this appeal
was taken.
ir. .. W. Fuller, in support of the decree:
1. It will be admitted by opposing counsel, that the authorities of Cook County had nojurisdiction for the purposes
of taxation over the person of any one who lived not in
Cook County, but who lived out of it, in a different county;
and that any tax laid by such authorities on that person
must be void. Now, the act of June 13th, 1867, enacts
"that no tax shall be assessed upon the capital of any bank,"
but that the stockholders in such banks "shall be assessed and
taxed on the value of their shares of stock therein." The
act relieves the capital-the property-of the bank from all
tax laid by the authorities of the place where that capital,
property, or bank is, and lays it on the stockholder wherever
he may be. It forbids a tax in rem and establishes a tax in
personam. Now, so far as respects stockholders in Cook
County, who are within the jurisdiction of the authorities of
that county for the purposes of taxation, this is lawful. Is
it so under the constitution of the State in regard to those
who do not reside in Cook County, but reside out of it and
in other counties of the State ? We think that it is not.
Concede-as is probably true-that personal property having visible, tangible, and bodily form (as ex. gr., cattle), is
taxable in the place where it permanently is, the concession
does not help the validity of this tax. In the first place it
* 11 "Wallace, 108.

496

TAPPAN V. MERCHANTS'

NATIONAL BANK.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument against the tax.

often happens that the capital of a bank is not at the placq
where the banking-house is situated, and where the -operations of the bank are carried on. Many banks have their
money largely deposited in distant places. Especially is
this true of banks in the West dealing much in exchange.
Their funds are necessarily on deposit in Eastern cities.
But independently of this, shares of stock in a corporation
represent an interest quite different, and separated from the
capital stock of the corporation; that is to say, the real and
personal property owned by the corporation. What is a
share of stock in a bank? Nothing but a right to a dividend
of profits as they are declared, and to a share of the effects
of the bank if it should ever be wound up. Now, such
a right can have no situs save at the domicile of the shareholder. Since the great case of The Slate Tax on Foreignheld Bonds, so recently decided by this courf,* where it was
held that a tax by a State on bonds given by her citizens,
could not be levied on and retained from the interest of the
bonds when they were owned by persons out of the State,
and so held for the exact reason that choses in action followed
the persons of their owner, it is unnecessary to refer to
those numerous decisions in State courts which have adjudged that it is not within the power of a State legislature
to cause a non-resident shareholder to pay taxes upon the
value of his shares.t
We assume, therefore, that shares of stock owned by residents in other counties of Illinois than Cook County, are
not in anysense situated in Cook County.
Now, to apply these principles. Congress has no power
to authorize a violation of the constitution of a State in the
assessment and collection of taxes for State and local purposes. The National Banking Act of June 3d, 1864, cannot have meant to do this.
15 Wallace, 319.

t

Union Bank v. State, 9 Yerger, 490; Conwell v. Connersville, 15 Tndi
ana, 150; Savings Bank v. Nashua, 46 New Hampshire, 398; Dwight v.
Mayor, 12 Allen, 322; Austin v. Aldermen, 14 Allen, 364; McKeen v
Northampton, 49 Pennsylvania State, 519.

Oct. 1873.]

TAPPAN V. MERCHANTS' NATIONAL BANK.

497

Argument against the tax.

Now, what did the constitution of Illinois, Article 9, aeclare? It declared that all taxes for corporate purposes
shall be "uniform in respect to persons and property within
the jurisdiction of the body imposing the same."
"To render taxation uniform," says a text-writer of the
first class,* "two things are essential. The first is, that each
taxing district confine itself to things within its limits."...
"Within these districts the rule of absolute uniformity must
be applicable."
But when a resident of La Salle County, Illinois, owning
the whole stock perhaps of half a dozen banks in Cook
County, and owning nothing besides, is not taxed in La
Salle County at all, how is the rule of uniformity prescribed
by the constitution of Illinois observed? Yet under the statute of June 13th, 1867, this is the sort of taxation which does
occur. For that statute provides no mode of assessing the
shares of residents in the State at the place where they reside. In Trustees v. Mcconnel,t the Supreme Court of Illinois said that under the provision of the constitution which
we have referred to, the legislature "would have no power
to exempt from taxation one species of personal property
while it collected a tax from another within the same jurisdiction." But when you give to the county of Cook the
proceeds of taxation of shares owned by a resident of La
Salle, do you not exempt the latter in the county where he
lives, and tax his co-residents in that county to make up the
deficiency? Is this taxation uniform in respect to persons
within the limits of such county? We submit that it is
not.
There being then no valid law in force in this State, by
which the shares of stock in National banks, belonging to
residents of the State, can be taxed, the shares owned by
non-residents cannot be taxed, because the proviso to section
Ibrty-one of the act "to provide a National currency," of
June 3d, 1864, expressly declares that there shall be no tax
* Cooley, Constitutional Limitations, 496.

f 12 Illinois, 140.
VOL. XIX.

82

498

TAPPAN t. MERCHANTS' NATIONAL BANK.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument in support of the tax.

imposed upon non-residents that is not imposed upon residents of the State.*
It ought, perhaps, to be observed, that when the act of
June, 1867, was passed, controversy had arisen as to the
meaning of the words (whose meaning certainly is not perspicuous) in the provisos to the forty-first section of the law
of Congress, that the shares should be assessed "at the place
where the bank is located." The framers of the State law
doubtless supposed Congress to have required the shares to
be assessed in and for the benefit of the taxing district of
the bank's location; as courts of high respectability had
supposed before them.
2. The technical objection that the bank cannot interfere
in equity, in behalf of its shareholders, is without foundation. The bank occupies the position of a stakeholder. It
is the custodian of the dividends of the shareholders. The
shareholders insist that all the dividends be paid to them.
The collector demands that a part be paid to him. The
bank asserts and the demurrer admits that the shareholders
have given notice to the bank that if it pay these taxes
suits will be commenced at once against it. At the same
time if it does not pay them the collector threatens to sell
the shares, and so to get the taxes. It is obvious that the
latter course, if taken, would lead to further and harassing
litigation, working that kind of injury to the corporation
which, because the law aflbrds no such beneficial and complete remedy for it as the nature of the case requires, may
be deemed irreparable. Dows v. The City of Chicago is not
applicable to such a case.
Mr. J. K. Edsall, Attorney- Generalof Illinois, contra, argued
the case fully on principle and authority; citing among other
cases, one decided in February, 1873, First.LV6tional Bank of
Mendota v. Smith, Collector,t in which the law here in question was held by the Supreme Court of Illinois to be valid
under the constitution of the State.
* Van Allen v. Assessors, 3 Wallace, 573.

t

5 Chicago Legal News, 253.

Oct. 1873.]

TAPPAN V. MERCHANTS'

NATIONAL

BANK. 499

Opinion of the court.

The CHIEF JUSTICE delivered the opinion of the court.
We are called upon inthis case to determine whether the
General Assembly of the State of Illinois could, in 1867,
provide for the taxation of the owners of shares of the capital stock of a National bank in that State, at the place, within
the State, where the bank was located, without regard to
their places of residence. The statute of Illinois, under
the authority of which the taxes complained of were assessed, was passed before the act of Congress, approved
February 10th, 1868,* which gave a legislative construction
to the words, "place where the bank is located, and not
elsewhere," as used in section forty-one of the National
Banking Act,t and permitted the State to determine and
direct the manner and place of taxing resident shareholders,
but provided that non-residents should be taxed only in the
city or town where the bank was located.
The power of taxation by any State is limited to persons,
property, or business within its jurisdiction.1 Personal
property, in the absence of any law to the contrary, follows
the person of the owner, and has its situs at his domicile.
But, for the purposes of taxation, it may be separated from
him, and he may be taxed on its account at the place where
it is actually located. These are familiar principles, and
have been often acted upon in this court and in the courts
of Illinois. If the State has actual jurisdiction of the person of the owner, it operates directly upon him. If he is
absent, and it has jurisdiction of his property, it operates
upon him through his property.
Shares of stock in National banks are personal property.
They are made so in express terms by the act of Congress
under which such banks are organized.ยง They are a species
of personal property which is, in one sense, intangible and
incorporeal, but the law which creates them may separate
* 15 SLtat. at Large, 34.

1:State Tax

t 18 Id. 112.

on Foreign-held Bonds (Railroad v. Pennsylvania), 15 Wal.

lace, 319.
S]3 Stat. at Large, 102,

12.

500

TAPPAN V. MERCHANTS' NATIONAL BANK.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

them from the person of their owner for the purposes of taxation, and give them a situs of their own. This has been
done. By section forty-one of the National Banking Act,
it is in effect provided that all shares in such banks, held by
any person or body corporate, may be included in the valuation of the personal property of such person or corporation
in the assessment of taxes imposed under State authority,
at the place where the bank is located, and not elsewhere.*
This is a law of the property. Every owner takes the property subject to this power of taxation under State authority,
and every non-resident, by becoming an owner, voluntarily
submits himself to the jurisdiction of the State in which
the bank is established for all the purposes of taxation on
account of his ownership. His money invested in the shares
is withdrawn from taxation under the authority of the State
in which he resides and submitted to the taxing power of
the State where, in contemplation of the law, his investment
is located. The State, therefore, within which a National
bank is situated has jurisdiction, for the purposes of taxation,
of all the shareholders of the bank, both resident and nonresident, and of all its shares, and may legislate accordingly.
The State of Illinois thus having had, in 1867, the right
to tax all the shareholders of National banks in that State
on account of their shares, it remains to consider at what
place or places within the State such taxes could be assessed.
It is conceded that it was within the power of the State
to fax the shares of non-resident shareholders at the place
where the bank was located, but it is claimed that under the
constitution of the State resident shareholders could only
be taxed at the places of their residence. We have not
been referred to any express provision of the constitution
to that effect. There is nothing which in terms prohibits
the General Assembly from separating personal property
within the State from the person of the owner and locating
it at appropriate places for the purposes of taxation, but it
* 13 Stat. at Large, 112.

Oct. 1873.]

TAPPAN

V. MERCHANTS' NATIONAL

BANK.

501

Opinion of the court.

is insisted that sections two and five of Article 9 of the Constitution of 1848, which was in force when the act of 1867
was passed, contain an implied prohibition.
Section two directs that "the General Assembly shall provide for levying a tax by valuation, so that every person or
corporation shall pay a tax in proportion to the value of his
or her property; such value to be ascertained by some person or persons to be elected or appointed in such manner as
the General Assembly shall direct, and not otherwise."
Section five directs that "the corporate authorities of counties, townsllips, school districts, cities, towns, and villages,
may be vested with power to assess and collect taxes for
corporate purposes; such taxes to be uniform in respect to
persons and property within the jurisdiction of the body imposing the same. Aid the General Assembly shall require
that all property within the limits of municipal corporations
belonging to individuals shall be taxed for the payment of
debts contracted under authority of law." The corresponding provisions of the Constitution of 1870 are in substance
the same.
The object of these sections is to secure uniformity of taxation. That, it is said in Bureau Co. v. C. B. and Q. B. .
Co.,* is to be regarded as the cardinal principle, the dominant idea of this article of the constitution. But uniformity
in this connection is only another name for equality, for the
provision is for "levying a tax by valuation, so that every
person and corporation shall pay a tax in proportion to the
value of his or her property." The value of the property
being ascertained, the same rate of taxation must be laid
upon all.
Property is made the constitutional basis of taxation. This
is not unreasonable. Governments are organized for the
protection of persons and property, and the expenses of the
protection may very properly be apportioned among the
persons protected according to the value of their property
protected.
The constitution does not undertake to fix the value of
* 44 Illinois, 238.

502

TAPPAN V. MERCHANTS' NATIONAL BANK.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

the property. Neither does it prescribe any rules by which
it is to be fixed. That is left to the General Assembly, for
the provision in that respect is, " such value to be ascertained by some person or persons to be elected or appointed
in such manner as the General Assembly shall direct, and
not otherwise." The mode and manner in which the persons appointed to make the valuation shall proceed, are left
to the discretion of the General Assembly. In fact, the
whole machinery of taxation must be contrived and put into
operation by the legislative department of the government.
As part of this machinery taxation districts nust be created. All property within the district must be taxed by a
uniform rate.

If property is actually within a district it is

but proper that the legislature should provide that it should
be listed, valued, and assessed there. In fact, the last clause
of section five, Article 9, seems to make that a duty, for it
provides that the General Assembly shall require that all
property within the limits of municipal corporations, belonging to individuals, shall be taxed for the payment of debts
contracted under authority of law.
This power of locating personal property for the purpose
of taxation without regard to the residence of the owner has
been often exercised in Illinois, and sustained by the courts.*

Since the adoption of the constitution of 1870, which did
not enlarge the powers of the General Assembly in this particular, very extended legislation has been had with a view
to such location. Thus, live stock and other personal property used upon a farm, must be listed and assessed where
the farm is situated; property in the hands of agents at the
place where the business of the agent is transacted; watercraft where they are enrolled: or, if not enrolled, where
they are kept; the property of bankers, brokers, merchants,
manufacturers, and many other classes of persons specially
enumerated, at the place where their business is carried on.
This became necessary in order that the burdens of taxation
might be equally distributed among those who should bear
them.
* City of Dunleith v. Reynolds, 53 Illinois, 45.

Oct. 1873.]

TAPPAN V. MERCHANTS'

NATIONAL BANK.

503

Opinion of the court.

We do not understand the counsel for the appellee to dispute this power, where the property is tangible and capable
of having, so to speak, an actual silus of its own, but he
claims that if it is intangible, it cannot be separated from
the person of its owner. It must be borne in mind that all
this property, intangible though it may be, is within the
State. That which belongs to non-residents is there by operation of law. That which belongs to residents is there by
reason of their residence. All the owners have submitted
themselves to the jurisdiction of the State, and they must
obey its will when kept within the limits of constitutional
power.
The question is then presented whether the General Assembly, having complete jurisdiction over the person and
the property, could separate a bank share from the person
of the owner for the purposes of taxation. It has never been
doubted that it was a proper exercise of legislative power
and discretion to separate the interest of a partner in partnership property from his person for that purpose, and to
cause him to be taxed on its account at the place where the
business of the partnership was carried on. And this, too,
without reference to the character of the business or the
property. The partnership may have been formed for the
purpose of carrying on mercantile, banking, brokerage, or
stock business. The property may be tangible or intangible,
goods on the shelf or debts due for goods sold. The interest
of the partner in all the property is made taxable at the
place where the business is located.
A share of bank stock may be in itself intangible, but it
represetnts that which is tangible. It represents money or
property invested in the capital stock of the bank. That
capital is employed in business by the bank, and the business is very likely carried on at a place other than the resi.
dence of some of the shareholders. The shareholder is protected in his person by the government at the place where
he resides; but his property in this stock is protected at the
place where the bank transacts his business. If he were a
partner in a private bank doing business at the same place,

504

TAPPAN V. MERCHAN-S' iNATIONAL BANK.

[Sup. Ot.

Opinion of the court.

be might be taxed there on account of his interest in the
partnership. It is not easy to see why, upon the same principle, he may not be taxed there on account of his stock in
an incorporated bank. His business is there as much in the
one case as in the other. He requires for it the protection
of the government there, and it seems reasonable that he
should be compelled to contribute there to the expenses of
maintaining that government. It certainly cannot be an
abuse of legislative discretion to require him to do so. If it
is not, the General Assembly can rightfully locate his shares
there for the purpose of taxation.
But it is said to be a violation of the constitutional rule
of uniformity to compel the owner of a bank share to submit
to taxation for this part of his property at a place other than
his residence, because other residents are taxed for their
personal property where they reside. It is a sufficient answer to this proposition to say that all persons owning the
same kind of property are taxed as he is taxed. Absolute
equality in taxation can never be attained. That system is
the best which comes the nearest to it. The same rules
cannot be applied to the listing and valuation of all kinds
of property. Railroads, banks, partnerships, manufacturing
associations, telegraph companies, and each one of the numerous other agencies of business which the inventions of
the age are constantly bringing into existence, require different machinery for the purposes of their taxation. The
object should be to place the burden so that it will bear as
nearly as possible equally upon all. For this purpose different systems, adjusted with reference to the valuation of
different kinds of property, are adopted. The courts permit this. Thus, in a case in Illinois, involving the system
adopted for the taxation of bank shares, it was said by the
Supreme Court,* "in view of this legislation it must be apparent that a system of taxation for bank shares was designed peculiar to itself and independent.of the general revenue laws of the State;" and the authority of the law was
sustained and enforced.
*

: Veagh v. Chicago, 49 Illinois, 329.

Oct. 1873.]

E X PARTE IR0BINSON.

Syllabus.

Again, it is said the law in question destroys the uniformity of taxation, because it provides for the collection of
the taxes assessed on account of this kind of property in an
unusual way. The constitution does not require uniformity
in the manner of collection. Uniformity in the assessment
is all it demands. When assessed the tax may be collected
in the manner the law shall provide; and this may be varied
to suit the necessities of each case.
Since the decree was rendered in the Circuit Court the
Supreme Court of Illinois has passed upon this same question and declared the law of 1867 to be constitutional. We
might have contented ourselves by acknowledging the authority of this decision, but we are willing not only to acknowledge its authority, but to admit its correctness.
We have not felt called upon to consider whether the
General Assembly could, under the provisions of the act of
Congress, provide for the taxation of shareholders at any
other place within the State than that in which the bank is
located. It is sufficient for the purposes of this case that it
might tax them there.
Other questions have been discussed in the argument, and
among them one which relates to the power of the bank to
interfere in behalf of its stockholders in the manner which
has been done. We have not deemed it necessary to pass
upon any of these questions, as those already decided are
conclusive of the case.
DECREE REVERSED, and the cause remanded with instructions to proceed

IN CONFORMITY WITH
THIS OPINION.

Ex PARTE: ROBINSON.
1. The act of Congress of March 2d, 1831, entitled "cAn act declaratory of
the law concerning contempts of court," limits the power of the Circuit
and District Courts of the United Ststes to three classes of cases: 1st,
where there has been misbehavior of a person in the presence of the

