m

Oct. 1873.]

THE PENNSYLVANIA.

125

Syllabus.

vented. It will hardly be argued that this state of things
gave authority to invoke the extraordinary aid of a court of
chancery. The enforcement of the legal remedies was temporarily suspended by means of illegal violence, but the
remedies remained as before. It was the case of a miniature
revolution. The courts of law lost no power, the court of
chancery gained none. The present case stands upon the
same principle. The legal remedy is adequate and complete, and time and the law must perfect its execution.
Entertaining the opinion that the plaintiff has been unreasonably obstructed in the pursuit of his legal remedies,
we should be quite willing to give him the aid requested if
the law permitted it. We cannot, however, find authority
for so doing, and we acquiesce in the conclusion of the court
below that the bill must be dismissed.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

Mr. Justice OLIFFORD, with whom concurred Mr. Justice SWAYNE, dissenting:
I dissent from the opinion of the court in this case upon
the ground that equity will never suffer a trust to be defeated by the refusal of the trustee to administer the fund,
or on account of the misconduct of the trustee, and also
because the effect of the decree in the court below, if affirmed
by this court, will be to give judicial sanction to a fraudulent repudiation of an honest debt. For which reasons, as
3 seems to me, the decree of the subordinate court should
be reversed.

THE PENNSYLVANIA.
1. A collision occurred in a very dense fog between a sailing bark and a
large steamer, about two hundred miles from Sandy Hook, and therefore
in the track of inward and outward bound vessels. The bark was under
way moving slowly, and at about the rate of a mile an hour, and was
r7Ing n a bell as a fog signal. The steamer was going at the rate of seven
knots an hour.

THE PENNSYLVANIA.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.
Held, That the damages were to be equally divided between the two vessels, as, being both in fault, the steamer in moving in such a place at so
rapid a rate in so dense a fog, the bark for her violation of the act of
Congress for preventing collisions at sea (identical in this respect with
the British Merchants' Shipping Act), which requires, in its "Rules
concerning Fog Signals," that "sailing vessels under way shall use a
foghorn," and "when not under way shall use a bell."
2. Although, if it clearly appears that a fault committed by a vessel has had
nothing to do with a disaster which has occurred, the liability for damages is against the vessel alone which has produced the disaster, still
where a vessel has committed a positive breach of statute she must show
not only that probably her fault did not contribute to the disaster, but
that certainly it did not; that it could not have done so. In this case,
therefore, Congress having made the use of a foghorn obligatory on
sailing vessels under way in a fog, it was declared to be out of place to
go into an inquiry whether, in fact, a bell gave notice to the steamer
that the bark was where she was as soon as a foghorn would have done.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court for the Southern District
of New York; the case being thus:
An act of Congress for preventing collisions at sea*-the
act being essentially the same as onet enacted by the British
Parliament-lays down these

a

Rules governing Fog Signals.
Whenever there is a fog, whether by day or night, the fog
signals described below shall be carried and used:
Steamships under way shall use a steam whistle.
Sailing ships under way shall use a foghorn.
Steamships and sailing ships when not under way shall use a
bell.
This statute being in force, the Mary Troop, a British
bark, was bound from Androssan, in Scotland, to New York,
with a cargo of iron, and at ten o'clock on a morning of
June, 1869, found herself still on the high seas, about two
hundred miles from Sandy Hook. A dense fog was prevailing at the time, so thick that a large vessel could hardly be
seen at the distance of fifty feet. The wind was variable, and
rather strong from south to southwest. The bark was under
* Act of April 29, 1864, 13 Stat. at Large, 61 ; Article 10.
t The Merchants' Shipping Act of 1862.

Oct. 1873.]

THE PENNSYLVANIA.
Statement of the case.

way, heading from southeast to south-southeast, and moving
at least a mile an hour; her helm lashed three-quarters to
port, but on her starboard tack, carrying two close-reefed
topsails, foresail, foretopmast and rnizzenstay sails; no sail
aback. She had a bell, hung to the forestay by a reelf
earing to the forestay, and this bell was rung by a lanyard
tied to the tongue of the bell, from fifteen to twenty times
a minute. She also had a good foghorn. This horn had
been used the day before, but was not used on the morning
of which we are speaking.
The whistle of a steamer was heard through the fog off
the port side. The second mate, who had just at that moment reached the deck, called to the captain and mate, "Do
you hear that foghorn ?" The mate replied, "It is a whistle,"
and he and the captain at once ran aft. As they got on the
quarter deck, the bows of a large steamer appeared through
the fog heading rapidly for the bark, and but a short distance off. The steamer appeared to be then swinging on a
starboard helm, but almost instantly changed her course on
a port helm and struck the bark stem on, on the port side
of the bark by the forerigging. The blow cut the bark in
two and she sank instantly. The captain, the second mate,
and fbur of the crew were drowned. The only persons saved
were the mate, the cook, and two men who were in the watch
below.
The steamer proved to be the British steam propeller
Pennsylvania, a vessel of 300 horse-power, 2388 tons, and
341 feet long. Her speed at the time when she thus appeared to the bark and coming down upon her, was seven
knots an hour.
There was nothing in the evidence beyond the evidence
of her speed-if that was proof of want of precaution-to
show any want of efficiency, vigilance, or precaution in the
navigation and management of the steamer up to the first
intimation of the bark's proximity. She had two lookouts
at their stations, " keeping their eyes and ears open for anything that might come in the way." They heard the bell
of the baik, and reported, "Ship ahead, a little on the star-

THE PENNSYLVANIA.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the &ase.

board bow." Order was given to the engineer, "Fall speed
astern," and the order was executed as soon as practicable.
The helm was ported; then a call to "starboard" was heard
from some quarter, and she starboarded ; tben again ported,
but in less than half a minute after the report of "ship
ahead" was made, and before the steamer had run her own
length, she went head on into the bark with the deplorable
result already stated.
When the steamer had got in the port of New York, the
owners of the bark libelled her in the District Court there.
There was comparatively little dispute about facts. It
was admitted that the steamer's rate was seven knots al
hour. Her master was examined, and said:
"The steamer was going seven knots. Her highest rate of
speed under the most favorable circumstances, is thirteen and
a half knots. The wind, the day of the collision, was southsouthwest, strong. The wind had been this way all the morning, and I think all the night. There was a good heavy swellmore than there should have been for the wind there was.
" Question. With the wind and sea as it was, could you have
run your vessel safely at a less rate of speed ?
"Answer. I don't consider we could have steered the vessel,
going slower; that is, could not have steered her straight."
Two other masters were examined, and confirmed this
view; but they had never, either of them, sailed the Pennsylvania, and each of them had sailed other vessels at a less
rate.
On the other band, one Lovett, a shipmaster for sixteen
years, who had happened in 1865-she being then heavily
laden-to be a passenger on the Pennsylvania, testified that
on one whole day then, her speed, he thought, did not average over four knots an hour, and that he noticed no difficulty in her steerageway.
So, too, while the technical violation of law in ringing a
bell instead of blowing a foghorn was not denied, evidence
was introduced by the owners of the bark to show that a
good bell could be heard further than a foghorn; evidence,
however, which was contradicted by witnesses in behalf of

Oct. 1873.]

TnE

PENNSYLVANIA.

Argument for the steamer.

the steamer, who swore that if the foghorn was a good one
it could be heard further off than could a bell.
The District Court condemned the steamer for the whole
loss. On appeal by her to the Circuit Court, that court
affirmed the decree, yielding assent, however, with great
hesitation, to the view of the District Court, that notwithstanding the conceded violation on the part of the bark, of
a plain rule of navigation, the consequences of the disaster
were to be visited entirely upon the steamer. From the decree
of the Circuit Court thus affirming the decree of the District
Court, the present appeal was taken.
Before the case came here, and on the steamer's return
to England, the owners of the cargo of the bark libelled
her in the British admiralty. The case was heard there on
evidence much less full than that upon which it was heard
in New York, especially less full on the part of the steamer.
The admiralty, admitting the violation of law by the bark
in not sounding a foghorn, condemned, nevertheless, the
steamer for the whole loss; considering that it was attributable to the improper rate of speed of the steamer in a fog
so thick as here existed, and this decree was affirmed by the
judicial committee of the Privy Council.*
Messrs. William Allen -Butler and John Chetwood, for the
appellants:
1. The presence of thebark was discovered by the steamer's
lookouts at the earliest possible moment, and the steamer
was, therefore, without fault in respect to that point.. And
the steamer was equally without fault in respect to every act
done after the presence of the bark in her neighborhood was
first indicated.
2. The bark was clearly in fault in not complying with
the rule which required the use of a foghorn while she was
under way. The rule is imperative:
"Sailing ships, when under way, shall use a foghorn."
8. The steamer was not to blame on account of her rate
* The Pennsylvania, 23 Law Times, 55.
VOL. XIX.

9

180

Ti

PENNSYLVANIA.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the steamer.

of speed at the time of the collision. Lovett's evidence as
to the speed five years before the collision, when she was
very heavily loaded, is irrelative to the present case.
The law prescribes no rate of speed, and in the absence
of controlling evidence that seven knots is an unsafe rate of
speed for a steamer under the circumstances shown in this
case, the court cannot say that it is evidence of negligence
when all the testimony shows that in every other respect
the utmost care and vigilance were exercised to navigate
the steamer safely. The weight of evidence shows that it
was the lowest rate of speed at which this steamer could go
in the then state of the wind, consistently with safety. A
steamer has a right to go as fast as she can, provided that it
is not so fast as to prevent her from avoiding vessels under
way or at anchor which are complying with the law. Had
the bark been properly blowing a horn, or even regularly
and loudly ringing a bell, it could have been heard, with the
wind blowing as it was from the boat toward the steamer,
at such a distance that the steamer might, and the court is
bound to assume in this case would, have avoided the bark.
Any other rule would impose upon ocean steamers the alternative of reducing their rate of speed, so as to render
them much less serviceable by prolonging their voyage, or
of taking the risk of being punished for every collision with
a sailing vessel, however carelessly or illegally navigated.
It would virtually announce to sailing vessels that in every
case of collision with a steamer, the court would punish the
steamer, even though innocent, and indemnify the sailing
vessel, even though guilty.
4. The court below erred in attempting to speculate upon
the question whether the established negligence and violation of law, on the part of the bark, was or was not the
cause of the disaster. The fact of such violation without
excuse being proved, and the extent to which it operated as
a proximate cause of the collision not being ascertained, it
was error to impose the burden of the disaster upon a vessel
which was complying with the law in all lespects.
The decree below should be wholly reversed.

Oct. 1873.1

THE

PENNSYLVANIA.

131

Argument for the bark.

Mr.R D. Benedict, contra:
The decree below is right.
The Pennsylvania was in fault in the contradictory orders
which were given as to her helm. It was first ported, then
starboarded, and then again ported. This shows that there
was confusion on the part of the steamer. Such confusion
is a fault. There was abundance of time for the steamer to
have avoided the bark after her presence was known, by
either starboarding or porting, if the steamer had been prop-

erly managed.
The fact that the bark was ringing a bell instead of blowing a foghorn, if a fault at all under the circumstances, was
only a technical, not a substantial fault, and did not in any
way contribute to the collision.
The bark was lying-to under close-reefed sails, with her
helm lashed three-quarters to port. She was making leeway, heading from southeast to south-southeast, but going
cast by south, and making a speed of one mile per hour on
fliat course, practically drifting helpless; as the opinion of
the British Privy Council says, "forging ahead very softly."*
Although the foghorn was the signal which the law requires
for a vessel under way, yet the bell gave the louder signal,
and could be heard farther. The fact that this master and
mate, having a good foghorn on board, hung this bell on
the stay to use as a fog signal, is conclusive.- Their property and their lives were at stake, and it would require very
strong evidence to induce any court to believe that they
deliberately chose that one of the two signals, which carried
with it the smaller measure of protection.
If it is to be held that this bark was "under way," still
she was barely under way. And the case then is one in
which the vessel being barely under way, used the signal
for a vessel not under way, which was in fact a louder signal
than the law required, and gave the notice required by the
rule, viz., that the vessel was helpless, as was the fact. If
that was a fault it was as already said not a substantial fault.
* The Pennsylvania, 23 Law Times, 57.

THE PENNSYLVANIA.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the bark.

To visit it upon these owners with. the loss of their vessel,
would be a hard measure. If it was clearly made to appear
that the steamer had been misled by it, the case would be a
very different one. But the steamer was not misled in the
slightest. It is not even suggested by opposing counsel that
she was. And it is clear that she could not have been, because she don't pretend to have heard the bell at all; but
acted confessedly on the call, "Ship ahead." If a horn had
been blown, therefore,' instead of a bell being rung, the
movements of the steamer would have been the same. The
collision then was absolutely unaffected by the substitution
of the bell for the horn.
It is urged that the courts below should not have considered the question whether or not the ringing of the bell contributed to the collision. Doubtless it would simplify the
trial of collision cases, if the courts were only called upon
to inquire whether each vessel had complied with all the
requirements of the law, and not to inquire whether any
failure to comply with them had anything to do with the
collision. But that would be an unheard of mode of disposing of these cases. The question always is: "Did the
vessel commit a fault which contributed to the collision ?" As
Judge Phillimore puts it in this very case, "1Ilotwhich vessel
was to blanie, but which was to blame for this collision," is to
be considered: And a fault which did not contribute to it,
has never been held a reason for refusing to a libellant his
full damages.
In The Parragut,*the absence of a special lookout was
charged as a fault, and this court said:
"It is perfectly evident that the absence of a special lookout
bad nothing to do with the happening of the accident, and
therefore it can have nothing to do with fixing the liability of
the parties."
In addition to concurring decrees in the District and Circuit Court, which when they exist this court will not lightly
disturb, we have on our side the high authority of the judi.
* 10 Wallace, 334, 389..

Oct. 1873.]

THE PENNSYLVANIA.

133

Opinion of the court.

cial committee of the British Privy Council, affirming the
decree of the British admiralty. This court will not readily
disturb the concurring decrees of so many t-ibunals.
Mr. Justice STRONG delivered the opinion of the court.
It may be that when the bark was discovered by those on
board the steamer it was too late to avoid a collision. The
two vessels were then not more than three or four hundred
feet apart, and the steamer had the bark almost across her
bow. Yet it is possible that if her helm had been put to
starboard instead of to port when the lookout announced,
"Bell on the starboard bow," and had been kept starboarded,
the collision might either have been avoided or have been
much less disastrous. By porting her helm she was turned
toward the point where the bell indicated the bark was, and
this apparently increased the danger of a collision.
But if this is not to be attributed to her as a fault, there
is no excuse to be found in the evidence for the high rate
of speed at which she was sailing during so dense a fog as
prevailed when the vessels came together. The coneurrent
testimony of witnesses is that objects could not be seen at
any considerable distance, probably not farther than the
length of the steamer, and yet she was sailing at the rate of
at least seven knots an hour, thus precipitating herself into a
position where avoidance of a collision with the bark was
difficult, if not impossible, and would have been, even if the
bark had been stationary. And she ought to have apprehended danger of meeting or overtaking vessels in her path.
She was only two hundred miles from Sandy Hook, in the
track of outward and inward bound vessels, and where their
presence might reasonably have been expected. It was,
therefore, her duty to exercise the utmost caution. Our
rules of navigation, as well as the British rules, require
every steamship, when in a fog, "to go at a moderate speed."
What is such speed may not be precisely definable. It must
depend upon the circumstances of each case. That may be
moderate and reasonable in some circumstances which would
be quite immoderate in others. But the purpose of the re-

184

Tna PENNSYLVANIA.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

quirement being to guard against danger of collisions, very
plainly the speed should be reduced as the risk of meeting
vessels is increased. In the case of The Europa,*it was said
by the Privy Council: "This may be safely laid down as a
rule on all occasions, fog or clear, light or dark, that no
steamer has a right to navigate at such a rate that it is impossible for her to prevent damage, taking all precaution at
the moment she sees danger to be possible, and if she cannot do that without going less than five knots an hour, then
she is bound to go at less than five knots an hour." And
we do not think the evidence shows any necessity for such
a rate of speed as the steamer maintained. It is true her
master, while admitting she was going seven knots, states
that he don't consider she could have been steered going
slower-could not have been steered straight. And two
other witnesses testify that, in their opinion, she could not
have been navigated with safety and kept under command
at a less rate of speed than seven miles an hour. These,
however, are but expressions of opinions based upon no
facts. They are of little worth. And even if it were true
that such a rate was necessary for safe steerage, it would not
justify driving the steamer through so dense a fog along a
route so much frequented, and when the probability of encountering other vessels was so great. It would rather have
been her duty to lay to. But there is the evidence of one
who had been a shipmaster, and who once crossed the Atlantic as a passenger in this steamer. He states that on the
passage she did not, to the best of his knowledge, average
over four knots during twenty-four hours, and that he noticed
no difficulty in her steerageway at that low rate of speed.
As he was in the habit of going to sea he would probably
have noticed difficulty if there had been any. This is a fact
of more weight than any mere opinions unsupported by
observation or trial. We think, therefore, it must be concluded that the steamer was going at an undue rate of speed,
and that it was her fault that she came into a position from
Jenkins's Rule of the Road at Sea, 52.

Oct. 1873.]

THE PENNSYLVANIA.
Opinion of the court.

which she could not, or certainly did not, escape without
colliding with the bark.
It is next to be considered whether any fault of the bark
contributed to the collision. That she was in fault is beyond
controversy. She was in plain violation of the rules of navigation, which required her to blow a foghorn. Both our
own and the British shipping acts enact that sailing ships,
when under way, shall use a foghorn, and, when not under
way, shall use a bell. The British merchants' shipping acts
expressly declare that owners and masters of ships shall use
no other fog signals than such as are required by the regulations, and that if in any case of collision it appears to the
court before which the case is tried that such collision was
occasioned by the non-observance of any regulation made
by the act, or in pursuance thereof, the ship by which the
regulation has been infringed shall be deemed to be in fault,
unless it is shown to the satisfaction of the court that the
circumstances of the case made a departure from the regulation necessary. Our own statute does not contain this
provision expressed, but its meaning is the same. The bark
in this case was a British ship, as was the steamer. She was
under way, moving slowly, indeed little, if any, more than
a mile an hour, with her helm lashed three-quarters to port,
but on her starboard tack, carrying two close-reefed topsails, foresail, foretopmast and mizzen staysails, and with no
sails aback, so far as it appears. She was constantly changing her position. It was her duty, therefore, to blow a foghorn, and not to ring a bell. By ringing a bell, as she did,
she gave a false signal, and, so far as she could, assured all
approaching vessels that she was not under way. There is
some evidence that a bell can be heard as far as can a foghorn, and some that it can be heard farther. On the other
hand there is evidence that a foghorn can be heard farthest.
However this may be the bark had no right to substitute
any equivalent for the signal required by the navigation
rules. In the case of Te Emperor,* it was said, "It is not
* Holt's Rule of the Road, 38.

186

THE PENNSYLVANIA.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

advisable to allow these important regulations to be satisfied
by equivalents, or by anything less than a close and literal

adherence to what they prescribe." In addition to this it
may be remarked that a bell can never be an equivalent
for a foghorn. It gives different information. Both may
notify an approaching vessel that the signalling ship is in
the neighborhood, but the one gives notice that the ship is
moving, and the other that the ship is stationary.
Concluding then, as we must, that the bark was in fault,
it still remains to inquire whether the fault contributed to
the collision, whether in any degree it was the cause of the
vessels coming into a dangerous position. It must be conceded that if it clearly appears the fault could have had
nothing to do with the disaster, it may be dismissed from
consideration. The liability for damages is upon the ship
or ships whose fault caused the injury. But when, as in
this case, a ship at the time of a collision is in actual violation of a statutory rule intended to prevent collisions, it is
no more than a reasonable presumption that the fault, if noi
the sole cause, was at least a contributory cause of the disaster. In such a case the burden rests upon the ship of
showing not merely that her fault might not have been one
of the causes, or that it probably was not, but that it could
not have been. Such a rule is necessary to enforce obedience to the mandate of the statute. In the case of The
.Fenharn,*.theLords of the Privy Council said, "It is of the
greatest possible importance, having regard to the admiralty

regulations, and to the necessity of enforcing obedience to
them, to lay down this rule: that if it is proved that any vessel has not shown lights, the burden lies on her to show that
her non-compliance with the regulations was not the cause
of the collision." In some cases it is possible to show this
with entire certainty. In others it cannot be. The evidence
in the present case leaves it uncertain whether if a foghorn
had been blown on the bark, it would not have been heard
sooner than the bell was heard, and thus earlier warning
* 23 Law Times, 329.

Oct. 1873.]

THE PENNSYLVANIA.
Opinion of the court.

have been given to the steamer-seasonable warning to have
enabled her to keep out of the way. It was not without
reason that the statute required a foghorn for ships under
way, and a bell for those not under way. The legislature
must have known it was important ships should have the
earliest possible notice of the proximity of other moving
vessels. They might be approaching each other. If so,
they would come together sooner than they could if one of
them was not under way. It may be assumed, therefore,
that the legislature acted under the conviction that a foghorn could be heard at a greater distance than a bell, and
required the use of one rather than that of the other for
that reason. To go into the inquiry whether the legislature
was not in error-whether in fact a bell did not give notice
to the steamer that the bark was where she was as soon as
a foghorn would have done-is out of place. It would be
substituting our judgment for the judgment of the lawmaking power. It would be admitting the validity of an
equivalent for that which the statute has made a positive
requirement. Then how can it be shown on the part of the
bark that the failure to use a fbghorn certainly contributed
in no degree to the collision? How can it be proved that
if a foghorn had been blown those on board the steamer
would not have heard it in season to have enabled them to
check their speed or change their course, and thus avoid
any collision? Though there were two lookouts on the
steamer, each in his proper place, the bark's bell was not
heard until the vessels were close upon each other. Who
can say the proximity of the vessels would not have been
discovered sooner if the bark had obeyed the navy regulations? If it be said this is speculation, it may be admitted,
but it is speculation rendered necessary by a certain fault of
the bark. It is equally speculative to conclude that the
collision would have taken place if a foghorn had been used
instead of a bell, and intr therefrom that the fault of the
bark had no relation to the disaster. The truth is the case
is one in which, while the presumption is that the failure to
blow a foghorn was a contributory cause of the collisibn,

CARPENTER V. RANNELS.

[Sup. OrL

Syllabus.

and while the burden of showing that it was in no degree
occasioned by that failure rests upon the bark, it is impossi
ble to rebut the presumption. It is a well-known fact that
in some states of the atmosphere a foghorn can be heard at
much greater distances than in others. How far it could
have been heard when this collision occurred can never be
known. Nor can it be known what precautions the steamer
would have adopted if the true and proper signal had been
given her. Hence, it appears to us the bark has not proved
that her failure to obey the shipping regulations was not a
concurrent cause of the injury she received; and, consequently, as both vessels were in fault, the damages, according to the admiralty rule, should be divided.
We have not overlooked the fact that in a libel by the
owners of the cargo of the bark against the steamer for
damages resulting from the same collision, it was held by
the judicial committee of the Privy Council in England, that
the disaster was chargeable to the steamer alone. But with
great respect for the tribunal that thus decided, we do not
feel at liberty to surrender our judgment, especially in view
of the fact that the case is now more fully presented and the
evidence is more complete than it was in the British court.
DEOREE REVERSED,

and the cause remanded with instruc-

tions to enter a decree
IN

ACCORDANCE WITH THIS OPINION.

CARPENTER V. RANNELS.

A. having, prior to July, 1801, an inchoate title to lands in the then French
territory of what is now Missouri, agreed in July of that year to sell it,
on certain conditions of improvement, required by the government, to
B. On B.'s making the required improvements, the land was to "belong to him in full proprietorship," and A. bound himself, his heirs,
and assigns, "to solicit title from the government, and to make a regular
transfer to the said B. without any further cost on his part, except the
expenses of the neCessary deed." The said French territory, having

