Oct. 1873.]

CROPLEY V.

COOPER.

Syllabus.

not discover amy principle upon which he can justly avoid
the payment of his mortgage.
DECREE REVERSED,

and the cause

REMANDED FOR FURTHER PROCEEDINGS.

CROPLEY V. COOPER.
A. testator having five pieces of property, to wit, insurance stock, a vacant
city lot, a farm, corporation stock, and a city house, and little or no
other, and having four children, to wit, three sons, two (A. and B.)
married and having children, and one (C.) unmarried, and one daughter
(D.) aged thirty, then married and having a child (E.) aged three years,
made his last will.
He left the interest on the insurance stock and the vacant lot to his
married son A.; "and at his death" "the aforementioned stock and
the said vacant lot he equally divided between his (A.'s) children, their
heirs and assigns, forever."
He left the interest on the corporation stock to his son B. "for and during
his life," and at his death the said stock to be equally divided between
his (B's) children.
He left the usufruct of the farm to his unmarried son C., "for and during
his life;" 1 and should he marry and have legal issue," the said farm
to be equally divided amongst his children, when they shall have
arrived at the age of twenty-one years. The will continued: "Should
my said so ndie without lawful issue, it is my will that the said farm be
equally divided between my other children,share and share alike, to them,
their heirs and assigns, forever."
To his daughter he left the rent of his city house for and during her life,
and directed that at her death the same should be sold and ' the avails
thereof become the property of her children or child, when she or they
have arrived at the age of twenty-one years, the interest in the meantime to be applied to their maintenance."
After the testator's death, D., the daughter, had another child, who died
in infancy. The first child, E., lived till he was twenty-eight years
old, and then died, his mother still living, aged fifty-six, and the house
not yet having been sold.
On a bill filed by D., after the death of both her children and of her
husband, to settle the title to the city house, as between herself and her
brothers, the other children of the testator: Held, both on the apparent
intent of this particular will, as seen on reading the dispositions in the
different clauses to all the children, to give a full estate where the child

CROPLEY V. COOPER.

I

[Sup. Ot.

Statement of the case.
of the testator had a child or children, and on the technical rules about
vested and contingent remainders applicable to the clause relating to
that share given to the daughter, that the grandson, E., took a vested
remainder in the city house at the death of his grandfather, the te-tator,
but subject to open and let in after-born children, and to take effect in
enjoyment at his mother's death, that (the statute of Maryland making
him sole representative of his infant sister) the right of this infant sister
passed on her death to him, and (the same statute making a widowed
mother the representative to her only child) that on his, E.'s, death, all
his right passed to his mother, and accordingly that she, the daughter
of the testator, was invested with all his right to the city house, and that
she could have the property now sold, and that if it should be sold at
her death the avails would go to her representative, and that she might
either dispose of them in advance, by will, or leave them to be disposed
of by the statute.

APPEAL from the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia.
William Cooper, of Maryland, died in 1845, leaving a
widow (Sarah), three sons, William, Joseph, and John, and
one daughter, Elizabeth. Two of the sons, William and
Joseph, were married and had children; John was unmarried. Elizabeth, then thirty years old, was married to Richard Cropley and had one son, William Cooper Cropley.
The testator's property consisted of a farm in Maryland,
on which he resided; a house on Pennsylvauia Avenue, in
the city of Washington; a vacant lot there, on Capitol Hill;
stock in the Potomac Insurance Company, and stock in the
corporation of Alexandria.
His will ran as follows:

"I will and bequeath to my dear wife, Sarah Cooper, all my
stocks which I own in corporate institutions during her life;
also the rents arising from my house in the city of Washington.
I also devise and bequeath to my said wife the usufruct of the
farm on which I now reside, for and during her life, with the
option of selling the same by her,

. .

. in which case my will is

that the proceeds shall be invested in stocks of some sound and
corporate institutions, the interest from the same to be enjoyed
by my said wife for and during her life, and at her death the
said farm, or its avails if previously sold, as above permitted, to
be appropriated as hereinafter directed.

Oct. 1873.]

OROPLEY V. COOPER.

Statement of the case.
"I will and devise to my son William, after his mother's
death, the interest on $1250 stock now held by me in the Potomac Insurance Company, Georgetown. I also will and bequeath
to my said son, William Cooper, a vacant lot on Capitol Hill,
Washington; and at his death it is my will that the said vacant
lot and aforementioned stock be equally divided between his
children, their heirs and assigns forever.
"To my son John I give and bequeath, at his mother's death,
the usufruet of the aforementioned firm, or the interest of its
avails, if previously sold, for and during his life; and should he
marry and have legal issue, it is my will that the said farm, or,
if previously sold, the avails thereof, together with any interest
that may be due thereon at his decease, shall be equally divided
amongst his children when they shall have arrived at the age
of twenty-one years, the interest in the meantime to be applied
to their maintenance. Should my said son John die witlout lawful
issue, it is my will that the saidfarm, or its avails in case of its being
sold, be equally divided between my other children, share and share
alike to them, their heirs and assigns forever.
"To my son Joseph, at his mother's death, I give and bequeath, for and during his life, the interest on $1500 in the Alexandria Corporation stock, held by me, and at his death the said
stock to be equally divided between his children.
"To my daughter, Elizabeth Cropley, at her mother's death,
I give and bequeath the rent of my house on Pennsylvania Avenue, in the city of Washington, situated on square -,
for
and during her life; and at her death it is my will that the said
be sold, and the avails thereof become the property of her children or child, when he, she, or they have arrived at the age of twentyone years, the interest in the meantime to be applied to their maintenance."
Shortly after the death of the testator, Mrs. Oropley had
another child, a daughter, who died in infancy.
William Cooper Oropley, the child living at the death of
the testator, died in December, 1870, at the age of twentyeight, without issue, leaving his mother his sole heir-at-law
and personal representative.
The widow of the testator died in February, 1854. Richard Cropley, the husband of Elizabeth, died in 1851.

CROPLEY V.

COOPER.

-

[Sup. Or.

Statement of the case.

After William Cooper Cropley's death, his mother, then
fifty-six years of age, asserted ownership in the house on
Pennsylvania Avenue, mentioned in the will, and by the
last but two of the above-quoted clauses of the will devised
to her for life, and at her death over to her child or children.
Her view was that her deceased son, William Cooper Cropley, took a vested interest in the bequest in question at the
death of his grandfather, the testator, but subject to open
and let in after-born children, and to take effect in enjoyment at the death of his mother; that his sister, at her
birth, took a like vested interest to the extent of a moiety;
that at the sister's death her right passed to him as distributee (the statute of distributions of Maryland thus providing); that at his death all his right passed to her, his
mother, the complainant, as a like distributee under the
same statute.
The other children of the testator, William, John, and
Joseph, claimed the property, as heirs-at-law, on the ground
that the devise over to the child or children had lapsed.
This claim of the heirs-at-law casting a cloud on the title,
Mrs. Cropley filed a bill in the court below against said
William, John, and Joseph, to obtain a construction of the
will.
The bill represented that the complainant wished to sell
the property, but could not, owing to the cloud on the title
made by the claim of the sons, and it prayed that a decree
might be passed divesting the defendants of any title in or
to the property, and vesting the same in the complainant,
giving the true construction and interpretation of said last
will and testament.
That the court would grant such other and further relief
as to the court may seem meet and the interests of the corn
plainant might require.
The court below decreed that the devise over to the child
or children of Mrs. Cropley was contingent upon the child
or children surviving the mother, and also attaining twenty
one, and hence that the devise over did not vest at the death
of the testator, nor even upon William Cooper Cropley at-

Oct. 1873.']

CROPLEY V.

COOPER.

Recapitulation of the case in the opinion.

taining twenty-one, he having died in the lifetime- of the
mother. It accordingly dismissed the bill.
From this decree Mrs. Cropley took this appeal.
The case was elaborately argued on principle and authority, by Messrs. TV. D. Davidge and F. I. Jones, for the
appellant, and by Messrs. J. Bl. Bradley and B. T. .Merrick,
contra.
Mr. Justice SWAYNE delivered the opinion of the court.
This case turns upon the following clause of the will of
William Cooper, deceased:
"To my daughter, Elizabeth Cropley, at her -mother's
death, I give and bequeath the rent of my house on Pennsylvania Avenue, in the city of Washington, situated on
square -,
for and during her life; and at her decease it is
my will that the said be sold, and the avails therefi'om
become the property of her children or child, when he, she,
or they have arrived at the age of twenty-one years, the interest in the meantime to be applied to their maintenance."
The testator died in 1845. He left at his decease a widow,
Sarah Cooper, and four children, William, John, Joseph,
and Elizabeth, the complainant. William and Joseph were
married and had children. John was unmarried. Elizabeth
was intermarried with Richard Cropley, and had living one
child, William Cooper Cropley, then about three years old.
Shortly a'ter the testator's death, Elizabeth gave birth to a
daugiter, who died in early infincy. Richard Cropley, the
husband of Elizabeth, died in 1851. Her mother (lied in
1854. Her son, William Cooper Cropley, died in 1870, at
the age of twenty-eight years, not having married. After
his death, Elizabeth Cropley, the complainant, then fifty-six
years of age, claimed to own the house on Pennsylvania
Avenue devised to her for life. Her brothers, William,
John, and Joseph, set up claims as heirs-at-law of their
father, alleging that the bequest to the children of Elizabeth
had failed by teason of the death of both of them befi3re the
death of their mother, and of the younger one before reach-

CROPLEY V.

COOPER.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

ing the age of twenty-one years. The complainanL, thereupon filed this bill to obtain a construction of the will, and
to ascertain her rights.
The question presented for our determination is, whether
the bequest to her children lapsed, as is insisted by the appellees; or, in other words, whether it was vested or contingent.
It is an axiom in the law of wills that the intention of the
testator shall prevail. Upon looking at this will as regards
the four children of the testator, we find that the provision
made for each is clear and explicit. He gave to William,
after his mother's death, the income from $1250 of the stock
of the Potomac Insurance Company, and a vacant lot on
Capitol Hill. At his death, it is directed "that the said
vacant lot and the aforementioned stock be equally divided
between his children, their heirs and assigns forever." To
John, at his mother's death, was given the use of a farm;
or, itf sold by his mother, the interest accruing from the proceeds, for life. If he should marry and have lawful issue, at
his death, the farm or its avails was to be equally divided
among his children when they should arrive at the age of
twenty-one, " the interest in the meantime to be applied to
This clause concludes as follows:
their maintenance."
"Should my son John die without issue, it is my will that
the said farm or its avails, in case of its being sold, be
equally divided among my other children, share and share
alike, to them, their heirs and assigns forever." To Joseph,
at his mother's death, was given the interest of $1500 of
Alexandria Corporation stock, and at his death it was " to
be equally divided between his children." Then follows the
provision for Elizabeth and her children.
The property given to the sons who lad children, is given
to them for life, and at their death to their children in equal
shares. There is no provision beyond this. The gift is absolute. The children of John, if he should have ally, were
not to" receive their shares until they should arrive at the
age of twenty-one. But the interest, in the meantime, wan

Oct. 1873.]

CROPLEY

V.

COOPER.

173

Opinion of the court.

to be applied to their support. It was only in the event of
his dying without issue that the further provision was to.
take effect. The entire failure of issue at his death and not
the failure of such issue to reach the age named was the
condition of the gift over to his brothers and sister.
So as respects the complainant, who, like her brothers
William and Joseph, had issue living at tile death of the
testator. The gift is to her and her child or children,
and there is no devise or bequest over in any contingency
that might occur. The mother and children were the objects of the testator's solicitude and bounty. He looked no
further into the future. Williani, Joseph, and Elizabeth, and
their children were thus placed upon a footingof equality.
If John should have lawful issue living at his death, such
iss5ue would be in the sanmc category with the children of
William, Joseph, and Elizabeth. It seems clear to us that
the testator intended that what was given to each of his children should vest interest in them aid in their children as
early as possible, the period of enjoyment to be deferred in
each case as was specially provided, and that the result
should be the same in John's case if issue should thereafter
be born to him and survive him. Beyond his grandchildren,
including the children of John, if aly should be living at
his death, the testator left it to the local law of descent and
distribution to meet any emergency that might arise.
It was only in the single event of John dying without
issue, that it was declared by the testator that the property
thus given to one of his children should go over to the
others.
If we pursue the subject before us by the light of the
rules of law which apply, we shall reach the same conclusion.
An analysis of the clause in question eliminates these particulars:
Laying out of view the estate of her mother, a life estate
is given to Elizabeth Cropley.
At her death, whenever that might occur, ald whatever
then the age of her offspring, the property was to be sold

174

CROPLEY V.

CoOPER.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

a(d converted into money. Her death and the sale might
have occurred imn-ediately after the death of the testator.
Upon the sale being made, her off.-pring, if"minors, would
have become entitled to the interest of the fund until the
age of twenty-one years was reached. The right to receive
the whole or an aliquot part of the fund would then have
accrued.
The time of selling had no relation to the age of the
legatees.
It depended wholly on the death of the tenant of the life
estate.
The effect of her dying during their infancy would have
been that they would have taken the interest instead of the
principal of the fund up to the age of twenty-one, and then
the principal instead of the interest.
The real estate having been directed by the will to be
converted into money, it is to be regarded for all the purposes of this case as if it were money at the time of the
death of the testator. That it was not to be sold until after
the termination of two successive lire estates does not affect
the application of the principle. Equity regards substance
and not form, and considers that as done which is required
to be done. The sale being directed absolutely, the time is
immaterial.*
Where a bequest is given by a direction to pay when the
legatee attains to a cerfain age, and the interest of the fund
is given to him in the meantime, this shows that a present
gift was intended, and the legacy vests in interest at the
death of the testator.t
A bequest in the form of a direction to pay at a future
period vests in interest immediately if the payment be post*

Craig v. Leslie, 3 Wheaton,

563; Peter v. Beverly, 10 Peters, 563;

Taylor et al. v. Benham, 5 oward, 269; Fairly v. K line, Pennington, 554;
Reading v. Blackwell, Baldwin, 166; Hocker v. Gentry, 3 2etealfe, 473.
t Re Hart's Trusts, 3 De Gex & Jones, 202; Hanson v. Graham, 6 Vesey,
239; Hammond v. Maule, 1 Collyer, 281; Burrill v. Sheil, 2 Barbour, 471;
Bayard v. Atkins, 10 Pennsylvania State, 20; Provenchere's Appeal, 67

1d. 466; Hanson v. Brawner, 2 Maryland, 102; Nixon v. Robbins, 24 Ala.
bama, 669.

Oct. 1873.]

CROPLEY V.

COOPER.

Opinion of the court.

poned for the convenience of the estate or to let in some
other interest. The payment of debts is an instance of the
former, and a prior temporary provision for some other person, as for Elizabeth Cropley in this case, is an instance of
the latter. In all such cases it is presumed that the testator
postponed the time of enjoyment by the ultimate legatee
foir the purpose of the prior devise or bequest.*
A devise of lands to be sold after the termination of a life
estate given by the will, the proceeds to he distributed thereafter to certain persons, is a bequest to tlbose persons and
vests at the death of the testator.t
It is a consideration of weight that if William Cooper
Cropley, who died at the age of twenty-eight, had married
and left children, according to the proposition of the appellees, they could have taken no benefit from the provision
made for their father. Such could not have been the intention of the testator. In real property cases, where the question arises whether a remainder is vested or contingent,
this consequence is held to be conclusive-that it was the
former.1 In Goodlitle v. Wldlby,ยง Lord Mansfield said:
"Here, upon the reason of the thing, the infant is the object of the testator's bounty, and the testator does not mean
to deprive him of it in any event. Now, suppose this object
of the testator's bounty marries and dies before his age of
twenty-one leaving children, could the testator intend, in such
event, to disinherit him? Certainly he could not." In Doe
v. Perryln,I Buller, J., said: "But if this were held not to
* Hallifax v. Wilson, 16 Ve.ey, 171; Leeming v. Sherratt, 2 Hare, 14;
Packbam v. Gregory, 4 Id 396; Winslow v. Goodwin, 7 Metcalf, 363;
*White v. Curtis, 12 Gray, 54; Tucker v. Ball, 1 Barbour, 94; Barker v.
Woods, I Sandford's Chancery, 129; Thomas v. Anderson, 6 0. E. Green,
22; McGill's Appeal, 61 Pennqylvania State, 47; Tayloe v. Mosher, 29
3Maryland, 443; Brent v. Washington, 18 Grattan, 526; Fuller v. Fuller, 5
Jones's Equity, 223; Roberts v. Brinker, 4 Dana, 673; Rawlings v. Landes,
2 Bush, 159.
- Fairly v. Kline, Pennington, 554; Reading v. Blackwell, 1 Baldwin,
166; Rinehart et ux. v. Harrison's Executors, lb. 177; Loftis -V.Glass, 16
Arkansas, 680.
$ Carver v Jackson, 4 Peters, 1.
1 Burrow, 284.
113 Term, 495.

CROPLEY V.

COOPER.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

vest till the death of the parents, this inconvenience would
follow: that it would not go to grandchildren, for if a child
were born, who died in the lifetime of his parents, leaving
issue, such grandchild could not take, which could not be
supposed to be the intention of the devisor." This reasoning applies to the present case.
Boraston's Case* was referred to by counsel on both sides.
The point there ruled was as follows: If real estate be devised to A. when he shall attain a given age, and until A.
attains that age the property is devised to B., A. takes an
immediate vested estate, not defeasible on his death under
that age; the gift being read as a devise to B. foir a term of
years, with remainder to A. The same doctrine has since
been affirmed in numerous other cases, and is now a canon of
the English law.t Boraston's Case related to real property.
If this were such a case it would be in point and conclusive.
It has been applied by American courts to bequests or personalty.$ The subject of vested and contingent remainders
was examined by this court in Poor v. Considine.ยง
Chancellor Kent says :11"It is the uncertainty of the right
of enjoyment and not the uncertainty of its actual eijoyment
which renders a remainder contingent. The present capacity of taking efifct in possession, if the possession become
vacant, distinguishes a vested from a coutingent remainder,
and not the certainty that the possession will ever become
vacant while the remainder continues."
"When a remainder is limited to a person in esse and
ascertained to take effect by words of express limitation on
the determination of the preceding particular estate, this remainder is most clearly and unquestionably vested."
Bequests involving the question before us may be resolved
into two classes:
(1.) Those where the time or event referred to in the
* 3 Reports, 21.

t"Hawkins on Wills, 237.
+ Roberts v. Brinker, 4 Dana, 573; Watkins v. Quarle;, 23 Arkansas, 179.
Collier's Will, 40 Missouri, 287.
6 Wallace, 476.
II 4 0Cmmentaries, 203.
1 Preston on Estates, 70.

Oct. 1873.]

CROPLEY V.

COOPER.

Opinion of the court.

future is of the substance and a condition of the gift, and,
hence, marks the time of vesting in interest.
(2.) Those where the vesting in interest has already occurred, and such event or time only designates the period
of the commencement of the enjoyment.
We think this case belongs to the second category.
We hold that William Cooper Cropley took a vested interest in the bequest in question at the death of the testator,
but subject to open and let in after-born children, and to
take effect in enjoyment at the death of his mother; that
his sister, at her birth, took a like vested interest to the extent of a moiety; that at her death her right passed to him
as distributee, according to the Statute of Distribution of
Maryland; that at his death all his right passed to his
mother, the comphinant, as a like distributee under the
same statute. If the property shall be sold at her death all
the avails will go to her legal representative. She may dispose of them in advance by will, or leave them to be distributed according to the statute.
At the age of twenty-one William Cooper Cropley might
have elected to take the property instead of its proceeds.
Ill that event no sale could have taken place. The complainant is now the only party in interest. Under the circumstances, we think the complainant may exercise the
right of election as her son, if living, could have done, and
that, under the general prayer for relief in the bill, she may
accomplish that object in this case, if she shall desire to do
so.*
DECREE REVERSED,

and the cause remanded with direc-

tions to enter a decree
IN

CONFORMITY TO THIS OPINION.

*Craig v. Leslie, 3 Wheaton, 563; Fletcher v. Ashbarner, 1 Leading
Cases in Equity, 794, 805, notes.

VOL.

X.

TiE Rio

GRANDE.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

THE

Rio

GRANDE.

1. Five libellants, on separate libels in rem, got a decree in the Circuit Court
of one circuit against a vessel for sums each one under $2000, and so
without right of appeal here, and costs. Before they could get satisfaction from the vessel, she was taken out to sea.
The vessel happening to be subsequently in another district the same five
libellants now sent and libelled her there; not filing five separate libels,
as in the former district, but all five persons joining in one libel, claiming for each the old sums, with interest from a day named, and claiming
in one sum, and without any specification of what portion of it was for
which libellant, the sum of $1767.62, costs of the courts of the first
district, "and also all costs in this behalf expended." The Circuit
Court decreed in favor of the libellants the amount claimed by each,
with 8 per cent. interest from a day named, to the date of the Circuit
Court's decree; and "the further sum of $1767.62 costs in the District
and Circuit Courts" of the former district, and all costs in the District
and Circuit Courts where the libels had last'been filed. With the
interest thus allowed the claims of two of the five libellants exceeded
the sum of $2000, but even with it added the claims of the remaining
three did not do so.
The owners of the vessel having taken an appeal to this court, a motion
"to dismiss the appeal," for want of jurisdiction, because "the matter
in dispute did not exceed the sum or value of $2000," was denied; the
ground for the denial assigned being that "the motion is to dirihiss the
appeal," and that the decree in favor of two of the libellants was greater
than $2000 when the interest allowed by the Circuit Court to the date
of its decree was included with the principal.
2. Great faith given to a certificate of a clerk below (in the face of things apparent on the transcript itself, and in face of the assertion by counsel
of one side and the admission by counsel of the other), that a record sent
here by him is a full, complete, true, and perfect transcript of the record
and proceedings in a court below.
3. On an allegation of deficiency in the record, the deficiency, if any, may
be supplied by certiorari. A motion to dismiss the appeal upon such
allegation denied.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court for the District of Louisiana; the case being thus:
The Judiciary Act as amended by an act of 1803 gives
appeals to this court from the Circuit Courts in admiralty
causes, "where the matter in dispute exceeds the sum or
value of $2000, exclusive of costs."

