666

TowNsHIP OF PINE GROVE V. TALCOTT.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

TOWNSHIP OF PINE GROVE V. TALCOTT.
1. There is nothing in the constitution of Michigan (established A.D. 1850
and which ordains among other things that"No person shall be deprived of property without due process of law. The
credit of the State shall not be granted in aid of any person, association, or
corporation. The State shall not be a party to or interested in any work of
internal improvement")
which makes void the act of the legislature of that State passed March
22d, 1869, and by which it was enacted"That it shall be lawful for any township or city to pledge its aid to any
railroad company now chartered, organized, or that may hereafter he organized
under or by virtue of the laws of the State of Michigan, in the construction of
its road, by loan or donation, with or without conditions, for such sum or sums,
not exceeding 10 per centum of the assessed valuation then last made of the
real and personal property in such township or city, as a majority of the electors
of such township or city voting shall, at a meeting or meetings to be called for
that purpose, determine."
2. The decisions of the highest court of the State to the contrary will not be
respected by this court when such decisions are not satisfactory to the
minds of the judges here, and when the matter in question is bonds issued
in negotiable form by a township of that State, and now in the hands
of a citizen of another State or a foreigner, bond fide and for value
paid.
8. Questions relating to bonds issued in a negotiable form, under such an
act, involve questions relating to commercial securities; and whether
under the constitution of the State such securities are valid or void belongs to the domain of general jurisprudence.
4. County of Otoe v. Railroad Company (16 Wallace, 667) and Alcott v. The
Supervisors (Id. 678) affirmed.

ERROR to the Circuit Court for the Western District of
Mlichigan, i-a which court Talcott brought assumnpsit against
the township of Pine Grove, one of the municipalities of the
State of Michigan, to recover the amount of certain bonds
issued by that township to aid in the construction of a railroad running through the said township, from Kalamazoo
to South Haven, both places being in Michigan.
The constitution of Michigan (adopted A.D. 1850) thus
ordains:
"ARTICLE

VI, § 32. No person shall be compelled in any

Oct. 1873.]

TOWNSHIP OF PINE GROVE V. TALCOTT.

667

Statement of the case.
criminal case to be a witness against himself, nor be deprived of

life, liberty, or property, without due process of law.
"ARTICLE XIV, § 6. The credit of the State shall not be
granted to or in aid of any person, association, or corporation.
"§ 8. The State shall not subscribe to or be interested in the
stock of any company, association, or corporation.
"§ 9. The State shall not be a party to or interested in any
work of internal improvement, nor engage in carrying on any
such work, except in the expenditure of grants to the State of
land or other property.
"§ 11. The legislature shall provide a uniform rule of taxation, except as to property paying specific taxes. Taxes shall
be levied upon such property as shall be prescribed by law.
"ARTICLE XV, § 13. The legislature shall provide for the incorporation and organization of cities and villages, and shall
restrict their powers of taxation, borrowing money, contracting
debts, and loaning their credit.
"ARTICLE XVIII, § 2. When private property is taken for the
use or benefit of the public, the necessity for using such property and the just compensation to be made therefor (except
when to be made by the State) shall be ascertained by a jury
of twelve freeholders, residing in the vicinity of such property,
or by not less than three commissioners appointed by a court
of record, as shall be prescribed by law.
"§ 14. The property of no person shall be taken for public
use without just compensation therefor. Private roads may be
opened in the manner to be prescribed by law; but in every
case the necessities of the road and the amount of all damage
to be sustained by the opening thereof shall be first determined
by a jury of freeholders," &c.
These provisions of the constitution being in force, the
legislature of Michigan, on the 22d of March, 1869, passed
an act entitled "Ail act to enable any township, city, or village to pledge its aid, by loan or donation, to any railroad
company now chartered or organized under and by virtue
of the laws of the State of Michigan, in the construction of
its road."

The act enacted:
"That it shall be lawful for any township or city to pledge its
aid to any railroad company now chartered, organized, or that

668

TOWNSHI

OF PINE GROVE v. TALCOT.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

may hereafter be organized, under and by virtue of the laws of
the State of Michigan, in the construction of its road, by loan
or donation, with or without conditions, for such svm or sums,
not exceeding ten per centum of the assessed valuation then last
made of the real and personal property in such township or city,
as a majority of the electors of such township or city voting
shall, at a meeting or meetings called for that purpose, determine."

The manner in which the vote should be taken and the
bonds executed was provided for in subsequent sections.
Under this act the bonds on which the suit was brought
were issued. The bonds, and the coupons attached to them,
were made "payable to bearer." It was not denied that the
directions given in the act were carried out.
The declaration set forth in special counts the cause of
action. The township demurred on the sole ground that
the law in question was in conflict with the constitution of
the State, and judgment being given against the township,
it brought the case here.
The act under which the bonds were issued bad been the
subject of very full consideration by the Supreme Court of
Michigan, in Bay City v. The State Treasurer,*and an act of
a similar character had been previously considered by the
same court in The People v. Salem.t Both acts were declared
to be in conflict with the constitution, and void.
In the former case (Graves, J., dissenting, and delivering
an opinion in dissent), the unconstitutionality of the law was
placed upon several distinct grounds, some of vwhich were
more fully insisted on than others.
In the latter case it was held (Cooley, J., delivering on
this occasion, as he had done on the former, the opinion of the
court), that the statute was in conflict with Article VI, section thirty-two, already quoted, which provides that no person shall be deprived of his property without due process of
law, and also with the provisions of Article X=V, sections
eight and nine, also already quoted, which prohibit the
* 23 Michigan, 499, 504.

t 20 Id. 452.

Oct. 1873.1

TowNsHIP or PINE GROVE V. TALCOTT.

669

Statement of the case.

State from being a party to or interested in any works of
internal improvement.
The court observes that the State had, prior to 1850, when
the constitution was established, been engaged in works of
the description named and bad owned some of the principal
railroads in the State. It refers to the history of the times
in which the constitution was adopted, and points out how
previously to that time the people had been fraudulently led
into the creation of debts for railroads of which they denied
the moral obligation, and in consequence of which their
public credit had been impaired; and how-interpreting
these provisions as effectually guarding them against the
like evils and dangers for the future-the people were induced more than by any other motive to adopt the constitution. The court says:
"All these provisions were incorporated by the people in the
constitution as precautions against injudicious action by themselves, if in another time of inflation and excitement they should
be tempted to incur the like burdensome taxation in order to
accomplish public improvement in cases where they were not
content to wait the result of private enterprise. The people
meant to erect such effectual barriers that if the temptation
should return, the means of inflicting the like injury upon the
credit, reputation, and prosperity of the State should not be
within the reach of the authorities. They believed these clauses
of the constitution accomplished this purpose perfectly; and
none of its provisions had more influence in recommending that
instrument to the hearty good-will of the people.
"In process of time, however, a majority in the legislature
were found willing, against the solemn warning of the executive, to resort again to the power of taxation in aid of internal
improvement. It was discovered that though 'the State' was
expressly inhibited from giving such aid in any form, except in
the disposition of grants made to it, the subdivisions of which
the State was composed were not under the like ban. Decisions
in other States were found which were supposed to sanction the
doctrine that under such circumstances, the State might do indirectly through its subdivisions what directly it was forbidden
to do. This a way was opened by which the whole purpose of

670

TowNsHip OF PINE GROVE V. TALCOTT.

[Sup. CL

Argument for the township.
the constitutional provisions quoted might be defeated. The'
State could not aid a private corporation with its credit, but it
might require each of its townships, cities, and villages to do so.
The State could not load down its people with taxes for the
construction of a public improvement, but it might compel the
municipal authorities, which were its mere creatures, and which
held their whole authority and their whole life at its will, to
enforce such taxes, one by one, until the whole people were
bent to the burden.
"Now, whatever might be the just and proper construction
of similar provisions in the constitutions of States whose history
has not been the same with our own, the majority of this court
thought, when the previous case was before us, and they still
think, that these provisions in our constitution do preclude the
State from loaning the public credit to private corporations, and
from imposing taxation upon its citizens, or any portion thereof,
in aid of the construction of railroads. So the people supposed
when the constitution was adopted. Constitutions do not
change with the varying tides of public opinion and desire; thie
will of the people therein recorded is the same inflexible law
until changed by their own deliberate action; and it cannot be
permissible to the courts that, in order to aid evasions and circumventions, they shall subject these instruments, which in the
main only undertake to lay down broad general principles, to a
literal and technical construction, as if they were great public
enemies standing in the way of progress, and the duty of every
good citizen was, to get around their provisions whenever practicable, and give them a damaging thrust whenever convenient.
They must construe them as the people did in their adoption,
if the means of arriving at that construction are within their
power. In these caes we thought we could arrive at it from
the public history of the times."
Notwithstanding these decisions, the court below gave
judgment against the township, and it, accordingly, brought
the case here.
Mr. J. A. Garfield,for the plaintiff in error:
The only point in issue below was the meaning of the
constitution of the State, and on such a question it was the
duty of the court below to have taken as true the meaning

Oct. 1873.]

Tow.snip OF PINE GROVE v. TALCOTT.

671

Argument for the township.

put upon it by its highest judicial tribunal. If a contrary
course of proceeding is permissible there is an end to the
independence of the judiciary of the States, and the decisions of tribunals which are confessedly constitutional expositors of the local law, are reviewed and reversed by a
tribunal possessing no authority to exercise such functions
upon any theory of State and Federal jurisdiction hitherto
recognized in our judicial history.
A long series of' decisions in this court-of which Nesmith
v. Sheldon* is but one illustration of which there are infinite
other ones from the first page of Dallas to the last of Wallace-stand out to witness that the Federal tribunals have
ever recognized and felt bound by the decisions of the State
courts in matters of local law. Although pressed on many
occasions to "amplify the jurisdiction," the rule has been
steadily adhered to, unless the case was within some of the
recognized exceptions. This case falls within none of the
exceptions. Nor is it in that class of cases where it has been
held that "if a contract when made was valid under the
laws and constitution of a State as they had been previously
expounded by its judicial tribunals, and as they were understood at the time, no subsequent action by the legislature or
the judiciary will be regarded by this court as establishing
its invalidity." Neither the act under consideration nor
any like act had ever been held valid. No exposition had
ever been made of the constitution of 1850, from which it
could be concluded that such legislation would be sustained.
There was no previous course of decision which held even
by inference that the constitutional prohibitions above rethrred to would authorize municipal taxation in aid of works
of internal improvement.
The case of Swan v. Williams,t which might, at a hasty
view, be taken as disproving what we say, was not a case
arising under the present constitution. Indeed, it was a
case which originated when an entirely different public
policy prevailed, and under a constitution whichpermitted
*7

Htoward, 812.

t 2 Mlichigan, 427.

672

TowNship OF PinE GROVE v. TALCOTT.

[Sup. Ct.

Recapitulation of the case in the opinion.

the legislature to make the public a party to such enterprises. What that case decides was this only, that a railroad was so far of public use as to justify the exercise of
the power of eminent domain by allowing it to take private
property upon payment of compensation.
Independently of all constitutional restraints, the bonds
are void. The railroad was a private enterprise. It had no
element of a public object, otherwise than as all manufactures, canals, steamboat lines, and other things open to
persons generally to enjoy on payment of their money, are
to be called public.
The present case, therefore, is that of a person buying
bonds and running the risk of their being held valid.
Messrs. J. S. Black and . A. Kent, with whom were Messrs.
C. . Walker and D. 1). Hughes, contra.
Ar. Justice SWAYNE recapitulated the facts of the case,
and delivered the opinion of the court.
The facts of the case are few and undisputed, and the legal
question presented has been settled by this court.
On the 22d of March, 1869, the legislature of Michigan
passed an act entitled "An act to enable any township, city,
or village to pledge its aid, by loan or donation, to any railroad company now chartered or organized under and by
virtue of the laws of the State of Michigan, in the construction of its road."
The plaintiff in error was the defendant in the court below. It is a body corporate in the county of Van Buren, in
Michigan. The case made by the declaration is as follows:
The Kalamazoo and South Haven Railroad Company is a
corporation organized under the laws of Michigan, having
for its object the construction of a railroad from the village
of Kalamazoo to the village of South Haven, in that State.
The line of its proposed route passed through the township
of Pine Grove. Pursuant to the act of the legislature before mentioned, a meeting of the electors of the township
was called to vote upon the proposition whether the town-

Oct. 1873.]

TOWNSHIP OF PINE GROVE V. TALCOTT.

673

Opinion of the court.

ship should, in aid of the construction of the road, give to
the company its coupon bonds to the amount of $12,000,
bearing interest at the rate of ten per cent. per annum, onesixth of the principal to be payable at the end of each succeeding year, from March 1st, 1870, until the whole amount
was paid; the interest to be payable annually from that
time. A majority voted for the proposition, and the bonds
were issued. They bore date June 1st, 1869. The plaintiff,
Talcott, was the holder and owner of a part of the bonds
and coupons. They are described in the declaration, and
were overdue. The township filed a demurrer. It was
overruled by the court; and the township electing to stand
by it, judgment was given for the plaintiff. The township
thereupon sued out this writ of error, and has thus brought
the case before this court for review.
It is not alleged that the bonds were not issued in conformity to the act, nor that there has been any want of good
faith on the part of the railroad company, nor that the plaintiff, Talcott, was not a bond fide holder. But it has been
argued that the act of the legislature was void. This presents the only question in the case, and it is fundamental.
If the foundation fails the entire superstructure reared upon
it must fall. It is said the act is in conflict with the constitution of the State.
It is an axiom in American jurisprudence that'a statute
is not to be pronounced void upon this ground, unless the
repugnancy to the constitution be clear, and the conclusion
that it exists inevitable. Every doubt is to be resolved in
support of the enactment. The particular clause of the constitution must be specified and the act admit of no reasonable construction in harmony with its meaning. The judicial
function involving such a result is one of delicacy, and to be
exercised always with caution.* It must be admitted that
the constitution here in question contains nothing directly
adverse upon the subject. But we have been referred in
* Twitchell v. Blodgett, 13 Michigan, 127; Tyler v. The People, 8 Id. 320;
People v. Mahany, 13 Id. 482.
48
TOL. i.

674

TOWNShIP OF PINE GRovel v. TALCOTT.

[Sup.

at.

Opinion of the court.

this connection to the following provisions" The thirtysecond section of Article VI declares that "no person, in
any criminal case, shall be compelled to be a witness against

himself, or be deprived of life, liberty, or property without due
process of law." Here there is no imputation of crime. The
clause is confined to judicial proceedings. Article XEV,
clauses six, eight, and nine, provide that the credit of the
State shall not be granted to, or in aid of, any person, association, or corporation; that the State shall not be interested
in the stock of any corporation, and that the State shall not
subscribe to, or be interested in, any work of internal improvement, or engage in carrying on any such work, except
in the expenditure of grants to the State of land or other
property. In this case it is the township and not the State
that is concerned. The State has done nothing, and is in
nowise liable.
The present constitution was adopted in the year 1850.
Before that time numerous acts involving the same principle
with the bne here in question had been passed by seventeen
States. Congress, by the act of June 3d, 1856,* granted a
large quantity of land to Michigan, to be used in aid of the
construction of railroads. This land was appropriated by
the State to several different companies, pursuant to the
provisions of the act. Other companies were subsequently
aided in the same way. In 1863 began a series of special
legislative acts authorizing the municipal subdivisions of
the State named therein to give their aid respectively to the
extent and in the manner prescribed. Between that time
and the year 1869 thirty such statutes were enacted. In the
latter year the general law was passed under which the bonds
in question were issued. This summary shows the understanding in the legislature, and out of it, in the State, that
there was no constitutional prohibition against such legislation. It does not appear that its validity was ever in any
instance judicially denied until the year 1870.
The case as to the constitution is a proper one for the ap11 Stat. at Large , 21.

Oct. 1873.]

TowNsHIP OF PINE GROVE v. TALCOTT.

675

Opinion of the court.

plication of the maxim, Expressio unius est exciusio alterius.
The instrument is drawn with ability, care, and fuln~ss of
details. If those who friamed it had intended to forbid the
granting of such aid by the municipal corporations of the

State, as well as by the State itself, it cannot be that they
would not have explicitly said so. It is not to be supposed
that such a gap was left in their work from oversight or inadvertence.
The eleventh clause of the same article declares that the
legislature shall provide a uniform rule of taxation, except
as to property paying specific taxes, and that taxes shall be
levied upon such property as shall be prescribed by law.
The object of this provision was to prevent unjust discriminations. It prevents property fron being classified and
taxed as classed, by different rules. All kinds of property
must be taxed uniformly, or be entirely exempt. The uniformity must be coextensive with the territory to which the
tax applies. If a State tax, it must be uniform all over the
State. If a county or city tax, it must be uniform throughout such county or city.* But the rule does not require that
taxes for the same purposes shall be imposed in different
territorial subdivisions at the same time. If so a county
could not levy a tax to build a court-house, jail, or infirmary
without rendering it necessary for every other county in the
State to do the same thing without reference to the different
circumstances of each one. So here one township through
which the railroad was to pass, expecting to be largely benefited by its construction, might give its bonds and impose
the tax requisite to meet the principal and interest, while
another township similarly situated might refuse to do so.
The rule would have no application to the latter.
The second and fourteenth clauses of Article XVIII prescribe that when private property is taken for public use
just compensation shall be made to the owner. These provisions relate to the exercise of the right of eminent domain.
The thirteenth clause of Article XV declares that "the
* Gihnan v. ThE. ('ity of Sheboygan, 2 Black, 514.

676

TOWNSHIP OF PINE GROVE V. TALCOTT.

[Sup. Ct,

Opinion of the court.

legislature shall provide for the incorporation and organization of cities and villages, and shall restrict their powers of
taxation, borrowing money, contracting debts, and loaning
their credit." The power here in question was exercised by
a township. The language of this clause clearly implies
that the powers to be restricted may be exercised; and what
is implied is as effectual as what is expressed.* Congress
can pass no laws but such as the Federal Constitution expressly, or by necessary intendment, permits.
The legislative power of a State extends to everything
within the sphere of such power, except as it is restricted
by the Federal Constitution or that of the State. In the
present case we have found nothing'that in our judgment
warrants the conclusion that the act in question is wanting
.invalidity by reason of its unconstitutionality.
But it has been argued that aside from any constitutional
prohibition the legislature had no power to authorize the
imposition of a tax for any other than a public purpose, and
that this act is not within that rule. Conceding for the purposes of this opinion the soundness of the first proposition,
the second can by no means be admitted.
Though the corporation was private, its work was public,
as much so as if it were to be constructed by the State.
Private property can be taken for a public purpose only,
and not for private gain or benefit. Upon no other ground
than that the purpose is public can the exercise of the power
of eminent domain inbehalf of such corporations be supported. This view of the subject has been taken by the
Supreme Court of Michigan.t But upon other grounds, we
think the public character of such works cannot be doubted.
Where they go they animate the sources of prosperity, and
minister to the growth of the cities and towns within the
sphere of their influence. Unless prohibited from doing so
a municipal corporation has the same p9wer to aid in their
construction as to procure water for its water-work3, coal
* United States v. Babbit, 1 Black, 61.

t Swan v. Williams, 2 Michigan, 427.

Oct. 1873.]

TOWNShIP OF PINE GROVE v. TALCOTT.

677

Opinion of the court.

for its gas-works, or gravel for its streets from beyond its
territorial limits.* Under the limited powers conferred by
the Federal Constitution, Congress has frequently given aid
in such cases. The Pacific railroads and the Louisville canal
farnish instances of such action by that body. The gift to
the sufferers from the overflow of the Mississippi, and prior
acts of the kind, must also be borne in mind. Cannot a
State legislature do the same things?
It does not belong to courts to interpolate constitutional
restrictions. Our duty is to apply the law, not to make it.
All power may be abused where no safeguards are provided.
The remedy in such cases lies with the people, and not with
the judiciary.
We pass by without remark the point whether in cases
like this the public or private character of the work is not a
legislative rather than a judicial question.
It is insisted that the invalidity of the statute has been
determined by two judgments of the Supreme Court of
Michigan,t and that we are bound to follow those adjudications. We have examined those cases with care. With all
respect for the eminent tribunal by which the judgments
were pronounced, we must be permitted to say that they are
not satisfactory to our minds. We think the dissenting
opinion in the one first decided is unanswered. Similar
laws have been passed in twenty-one States. In all of them
but two, it is believed their validity has been sustained by
the highest local courts. It is not easy to resist the force of
such a current of reason and authority. The question before us belongs to the domain of general jurisprudence. In
this class of cases this court is not bound by the judgment
of the courts of the States where the cases arise. It must
hear and determine for itself. Here, commercial securities
are involved. When the bonds were issued, there had been
no authoritative intimation from any quarter that such statutes were invalid. The legislature affirmed their validity in
Meyer v. Muscatine, 1 Wallace, 389.
t The People v. Salem, 20 Michigan, 452; Bay City v. The State Treasurer, 23 Id. 499.

678

TOWNSaIP OF PINE GROVE v. TALCOTT.

[Sup. Ct

Opinion of the court.

every act by an implication equivalent in effect to an express
declaration. And during the period covered by their enactment, neither of the other departments of the government
of the State lifted its voice against them. The acquiescence
was universal.*
The general understanding of the legal profession throughout the country is believed to have been that they were
valid. The National Constitution forbids the States to pass
laws impairing the obligation of contracts. In cases properly
brought before us that end can be accomplished unwarrantably no more by judicial decisions than by legislation.
Were we to yield in cases like this to the authority of the
decisions of the courts of the respective States, we should
abdicate the performance of one of the most important
duties with which this tribunal is charged and disappoint
the wise and salutary policy of the framers of the Constitution in providing for the creation of an independent Federal
judiciary. The exercise of our appellate jurisdiction would
be but a solemn mockery.j
The question here under consideration was fully considered by this court in .RairoadCompany v. County of Oloe,t and
in Olcott v. The Supervisors.§ We have no disposition to
qualify anything said in those cases. They are conclusive
in the case before us.
In Sedgwiek on Statutory and Constitutional Law,J it is
said: "It must be further borne in mind that the invalidity
of contracts made in violation of statutes is subject to the
equitable exception, that although a corporation in making
a contract acts in disagreement with its charter, where it is
a simple question of capacity or authority to contract arising
either on a question of regularity of organization or of power
conferred by the charter, a party who has had the benefit of
the agreement cannot be permitted in an action founded on
it to question its validity. It would be in the highest degree
inequitable and unjust to permit the defendant to repudiate
Gelpeke v. Dubuque, 1 Wallace, 175.
t Butz v. Muscatine, 8 Wallace, 579.
Ib. 678.

1 16 Id. 667.
11Page 90.

Oct. 1873.]

TOWNSHIP OF PIN9 GROVE V. TALCOTT.

679

Opinion of the court.

a contract the fruits of which he retains. And the principle
of this exception has been extended to other cases. So a
person who has borrowed money of a savings institution
upon his promissory note, secured by a pledge of bank stock,
is not entitled to an injunction to prevent the prosecution of
the note upon the ground that the savings batik was prohibited by its charter from making loans of that description."
The authorities referred to sustain the text.* But it is not
necessary to place our judgment upon this ground. We
rest it upon the other views which have been expressed, and
the authority of our own preceding adjudications.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

The CHIEF JUSTICE did not sit in this case, and took
no part in its decision.
Justices MILLER and DAVIS dissented.

* Palmer v. Lawrence, 3 Sandford's S. 0. 162; Steam Navigation Co. v.
Weed, 17 Barbour, 378; Chester Glass Co. v. Dewey, 16 Massachusetts, 94;
Steamboat Co. v. McCutcheon, 13 Pennsylvania State, 13; Potter v. The
Bank of Ithaca, 5 Hill, 490; Suydam v. Morris Canal and Banking Co., lb.
491; Sacket's Harbor Bank v. Lewis County Bank, 11 Barbour, 213; Mott
v.United States Trust Co., 19 Id. 568.

