HOLLADAY

v.

DAILY.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

HOLLADAY V. DAILY.
A power of attorney to sell and convey real property, given by a husband
andohis -wife, in general terms, without any provision against a sale of
the interest of either separately, or other circumstance restraining the
authority of the attorney in that respect, authorizes a conveyance y
the attorney of the interest of the husband by a deed executed in his
name alone.

ERROR to the Supreme Court of the Territory of Colorado;
the case being thus:
The statute of the Territory just named regulating the
subject of dower, enacts that "a widow shall be endowed of
the third part of all the lands whereof her husband shall die
seized of an estate of inheritance."
This statute being in force, and Ben Holladay being, as it
seemed, owner in fee of a piece of land there, he and his wife
executed a power of attorney to one Hughes to sell it. The
power ran thus:
"Know all men, &c., that we, Ben Holladay and Nv. A. Rolladay, his wife, have constituted and appointed B. M. Hughes our
true and lawful attorney in fact, for us and in our names to sell
and convey all or any lots of ground in said Territory, the title
to which is now vested in said Ben Holladay; and the said Ben
Holladay and N. A. _folladay, his wife, do hereby authorize said
Hughes to proceed to sell said property on such terms as be
may consider best for their interest. And it is provided that in
ease of the death"of either of the said parties making this power
of attorney, no further power shall be necessary to our said
attorney in fact and agent, to enable him to complete conveyances for property then sold, or to proceed to sell the same or
any part thereof thereafter; but he shall proceed, notwithstanding, to sell and convey said property until the same is all disposed of by him. Hereby ratifying and confirming all that the
said Hughes may do and perfbrm in the premises under this
power of attorney to him given, we have hereunto set our hands
and seals this 13th February, A.D. 1866.
"BEN

"N.

HOLLADAY,

A.

HOLLADiAY,

[SEAL.]

[SEAL.]"

Oct. 1873.]

HOLLADAY v. DAILY.
Statement of the case.

In September of the year in which the power was executed
Hughes made a conveyance of some of the land neant to be
conveyed. The deed began thus:
"This indenture, made this 27th day of September, A.D. 1866,
between Ben Holladay, of the city and State of New York, by
B. M. Hughes, his duly authorized attorney in fact, party of the
first part, and Richard Whitsitt, of the city of Denver, Territory
of Colorado, party of the second part, witnesseth, &e.:
"That the said party of the first part, for and in consideration of the sum of $30,000, &c., has granted, bargained, sold,
and conveyed," &e.
[tlere followed a description of the premises.
ended thus:]

The deed

"And the said party of the first part, the aforesaid pieces,
parcels, or lots of land unto the said party of the second part,
his heirs and assigns, against the claim or claims of all and
every person whatsoever, doth and will warrant and forever
defend by these presents.
"In witness whereof the said party of the first part has
hereunto set his hand and seal the day and year first above
written.
"BEN

HOLLADAY,

"By his attorney in fact:
"B. At. HunEIs,

[SEAL.]

[SEAL.]"

The possession of the land passed from Whitsitt to one
Daily; and in December, 1870, Ben Holladay, alleging that
he had never received any of the consideration-money recited in the deed, sued Daily to recover possession of the
land.
The only question was the sufficiency in law of the power
of attorney from Ben Holladay and wife to Hughes, and the
deed thereunder made from Holladay by Hughes, his attorney in fact, to Whitsitt, to pass the title of the said Holla.
day in the land to the said Whitsitt.
The court below gave judgment for the deferdant, and
the plaintiff brought the case here on error.

HOLLADAY

v.

DAILY.

[Slip. Ct.

Argument for the principal.

Mr. G. H. Williams, for the plaiit." in error:
Hughes was invested with a special power to sell and con-

vey certain lands in the joint names of Ben iolladay and
N. A. Holladay, his wife. All the expressions in the power
o" attorney are full and clear to this effect. Prorision is even
made for the death of one of the donors of the power, in
which event alone the power is to be exercised in the name
of the survivor, clearly implying that before that event it is
to be exercised in their joint names. Hughes violated the

spirit and letter of his warrant of attorney. The power which
lie exercised to sell the land of another was never created.*
It is impossible to say that the deed was made in substantial compliance with the warrant of attorney.
The deed is not so much a departure from the mode prescribed of exercising a power, as the exercise of a power
different from the one conferred. The power was to make
a deed in the name of two persons. The power exercised
was the making of a deed in the name of one person. This
was not a legal and valid compliance with the authority
granted.t An attorney acting under a written authority
cannot substitute what in his judgment is substance for the

forms required in the execution of the power.
Nor can it be said that the legal title was in Holladay,

and, therefore, that it was only necessary to execute a deed
in his name. If Holladay owned the property, he had a
perfect right to say upon what terms and with what forms
it should be sold and conveyed.

If he had provided in the

power that the deed made under it should have three witnesses, the deed would not be valid with two. He gave
Hughes no authority to execute the deed in question. No
inquiry can legally be made into Holladay's motives or reasons fobr requiring a joint deed in order to convey the property. Does the power of attorney require it? If so, and it
was not done, that is the end of controversy.
* Snow v. Perry, 9 Pickering, 542; Chase v. Dana, 44 Illinois, 262.

j- Batty v. Carswell, 2 Johnson, 49; Gibson v. Colt, 7 Id. 393; Rossiter v.
Rossiter, 8 Wendell, 494, 499.

Oct. 1873.]

HOLLADAY V. DAILY.
Opinion of the court.

Mr. P. Phillips, with whomn was Mr. J. W. Denvers, conltra,
citing Dolton v. Cain* and Dodge v. Hopkins.t
Mr. Justice FIELD delivered the opinion of the court.
In February, 1866, Ben Holladay and his wife gave to one
Hughes a power of attorney to sell and convey certain real
property, situated in Denver City, in the Territory of Colorado, the title to which was stated in the power to be in
Iolladay. In September following Hughes sold and conveyed in the name of Holladay alone, and as his attorney,
the premises in controversy. The question presented is
whether the deed thus executed in the individual name of
Holladay, and not in the joint names of himself and wife,
was sufficient to pass his title.
In most of the States a married woman cannot, in the ab.
sence of statutory authority, execute, either alone or in con
nection with her husband, a valid power of attorney to convey her interest in real property. She can pass her interest
only by uniting personally in a conveyance with her husband, and acknowledging upon a separate examination apart
from him, before a public officer, that she executes the conveyance freely, without any fear of him, or compulsion from
him. The private examination is required to protect her
from the coercion or undue influence of her husband, and
her acknowledgment is therefore considered as an essential
preliminary to the validity of any transfer by her. The private examination is in its nature personal; it is a matter in
which she cannot be represented by another. A privy acknowledgment by attorney, as observed by Bishop,t would
seem to involve a contradiction, and certainly would in a
great degree defeat the object which her personal examinafion was intended to secure.ยง
Whether any statute exists in Colorado which authorizes
a married woman to convey her interest in real property by
* 14 Wallace, 478.

t 14 Wisconsin, 635.
: On the Law of Married Women, J 602.
Sumner v. Conant, 10 Vermont, 19; Mott v. Smith, 16 California, [83
Lewis v. Coxe, 5 Harrington, 401.
VOL. XIX.

s9

HOLLADAY

v.

DAILY.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

attorney we are not informed. Counsel, whose attention
was called on the argument to the matter, were not aware
that any such statute exists.
Assuming, however, that such statute does exist, or that,
without any such statute, the authority of a married woman
to convey, in connection with her husband, which is conferred, implies a power to appoint an attorney for that purpose-and there are adjudged cases which proceed upon that
theory-we do not see any objection to the validity of the
deed actually executed in the name of Holladay alone, or to
its operation in passing the title. The wife of Holladay evidently joined in the power upon the supposition that she
might, in case of surviving her husband, have a right of
dower in the real property of which he was seized during
her coverture, and that the release of such right might be
required for an advantageous sale of the property. But in
fact she could not in any event have had a right of dower in
his real property in Colorado after its sale by him, although
she did not unite in the sale. By a statute of that Territory
the right of dower of the widow attaches only to lands of
which the husband dies seized. Her joint execution with
him, whether in person or by attorney, of the deed of the
premises in controversy, would not therefore have imparted
any greater interest, present or prospective, than his separate
conveyance.
Undoubtedly it is a rule that a special power of attorney
is to be strictly construed, so as to sanction only such acts
as are clearly within its terms; but it is also a rule of equal
potency that the object of the parties is always to be kept in
view, and where the language used will permit, that construction should be adopted which will carry out, instead of
defeating, the purpose of the appointment. Here the object,
and the sole object, of the power was to enable the attorney
to pass the title freed from any possible claim of the wife;
and under the law of Colorado that result could be accomplished by the deed of the husband alone as fully without as
with her signature.
A power of attorney created by two or more persons pos-

Oct. 1873.]

PACKET COMPANY V. SIOKLES.

611

Syllabus.

sessing distinct interests in real property may, of course, be
so limited as to prevent a sale of the interest of either separately; but in the absence of qualifying terms, or other circumistances, thus restraining the authority of the attorney, a
power to sell and convey real property, given by several
parties, in general terms, as in the present case, is a power
to sell and convey the interest of each, either jointly with
the interests of the others, or by a separate instrument.
The cases are numerous where a power given by several has
been held invalid as to some of the parties, and yet sufficient
to authorize a transfer of the title of the others. The decision of those cases has proceeded on the doctrine stated,
that where a power is given by several the interest of each
in the property, to which the power refers, may be separately transferred.

It is proper to state that in sustaining the deed executed
in the present case we confine ourselves to its operation in
passing the existing title of Holladay. It contains a covenant
of general warranty, and we express no opinion on the question whether the power authorized the attorney to make any
such covenant for his principal.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

PACKET COMPANY V. SICKLES.
1. Whilst the right to plead the statute of limitations is no more within the
discretion of the court than other pleas, when the refusal of the court
to permit that plea to be filed is based on the allegation that it is not
filed within the time prescribed by the rules of practice adopted in that
court, it is necessary that the party excepting to the refusal shall incorporate the rule in his bill of exceptions, or this court will presume that
the court below construed correctly its own rules.
2. Such rules are indispensabl to the dispatch of business and the orderly
administration of justice, and it must be presumed that the court below
is familiar with the construction and course of practice under them.
3. The rule of damages in actions at law.for infringement of the rights of
p~tentees has long been established in this court to be the customary

