RAILROAD COMPANY V. CHURCH.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

tnmy be authorized by the laws of the State. But in the case
of non-residents, like that under consideration, personal service cannot be dispensed with unless the defendant voluntarily appears.
JUDGMENT REVERSED,

and a
VENIRE DE NOVO AWARDED.

RAILROAD COMPANY V. CHURCH.
1, A writ of error lies from this court to the Supreme Court of the District
of Columbia on a judgment confirming an assessment for damages by
the use of the street in front of the church of defendants in error,
although the proceedings before the jury and the marshal, and in the
Supreme Court, are governed by a statute of Maryland, which, by the
construction of the courts of that State, does not allow an appeal or
writ of error.
2. The early decisions of this court held that the right to the writ exists in
such cases by virtue of the appellate power of this court as defined in
the act of 1801, creating the Circuit Court of the District; and we are
governed by the same act.

to the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia.
The trustees of the Sixth Presbyterian Church, in the city
of Washington, instituted proceedings before the marshal
and a jury of the District of Columbia against the Baltimore
and Potomac Railroad Company, to recover from it damages
which the church had sustained by reason of the road of the
company having been run through a street in front of their
church. The jury assessed the damages at $11,500, and on
the return of this inquest into the Supreme Court of the
District of Columbia, the inquisition was confirmed, and a
judgment rendered that the trustees of the church recover
of the railroad company that sum, with costs. The company
having brought the case to this court on writ of error, a 11(tio was now made by the trustees of the church to dismiss
it for want of jurisdiction in this court.
This want of jurisdiction was based on two propositions:
ERROR

Oct. 1873.]

RAILROAD COMPANY V.

CHURCH.

63

Opinion of the court.

1. That the proceeding is in its nature summary and special, and is of that character in which the action of the court
confirming or quashing the verdict of the jury is conclusive,'
and admits of no appeal.
2. That the proceeding in this case is governed, both before the jury and in the Supreme Court of the District, by a
statute of Maryland, which, by the uniform construction of
the courts of that State, does not allow an appeal or writ of
error to any other court.
Messrs. . A. Garfield and B. D. Mussey, in support of the
motion; Messrs. . Clarke and S. 7. Phillips, contra.
Mr. Justice MILLER. delivered the opinion of the court.
It is certainly true that the proceeding is of the character
asserted in the propositions on which the want of jurisdiction
is based, and that, as a general rule, no appeal or writ of
error lies in this class of cases.
But the appellate jurisdiction of this court over the doings
of the Supreme Court of the District is established and regulated by act of Congress, and a reference to the statutes on
this subject is necessary to the decision of the question before
us. The act which created the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia vested in it the same powers and jurisdiction that had previously belonged to the Circuit Court, which
it superseded, and the appellate power of this court was declared to be the same as that which it had, by law, over the
Circuit Court. The act of February 27th, 1801, organizing
the Circuit Court, declares that any final judgment, order,
or decree in said Circuit Court, where the matter in dispute,
exclusive of costs, shall exceed the value of one hundred
dollars, may be re-examined and reversed or affirmed in the
Supreme Court of the United States by writ of error or appeal, and though the sun limiting this jurisdiction has been
increased to $1000, this statute remains the sole rule governing the right of appeal in all other respects.
We are of opinion that both the questions raised by the
motion to dismiss have been explicitly decided by this court.

RAILROAD

COIPANY V. CHURCH.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

In the case of Custiss v. Turnpike Company,* an assessment
for land taken for the use of the company was quashed by
the Circuit Court, and a writ of error was sued out by Custiss from this court. A motion was made to dismiss this
writ on the same ground taken in the present case, namely,
want ofjurisdiction; to which Marshall, C. 5., replied, that
"at the opening of the case some doubt was entertained as
to the jurisdiction of the Supreme Court; but that doubt
is removed by an inspection of the act by which the Circuit Court of the District of Columbia is constituted. The
words of that act, descriptive of the appellate jurisdiction
of this court, are more ample than those employed in the
judicial act." He then quotes them as we have given them
above.
So in the case of Young v. The Bank of Alexandria,t the
court uses this emphatic language in regard to the same
statute: "The words of the act of Congress, being as explicit
as language can furnish, must comprehend every case not
completely excepted from them."
It is to be observed also that in this latter case the rights
of the bank and the jurisdiction of the court over it were
said in argument to be controlled by an act of the legislature
of Virginia. But the court held that whatever might be the
extent to which that statute affected the rights of the parties,
the appellate jurisdiction of the Supreme Court depended
solely on the act already quoted.
But perhaps the most conclusive case in this branch of
the discussion, namely, the proposition that the statute of
Maryland governs the right of appeal in the present case,
because by the act of Congress it is adopted as the mode of
proceeding in assessing damages and in defining the power
of the Supreme Court of the District in the matter, is that
of Carter's Heirs v. Cullinq.$ That was a case in which an
order of the Orphans' Court of Alexandria County, being
affirmed in the Circuit Court, an appeal wa- taken to this
court, and a motion was made to dismiss that appeal. This
* 6 Crancli, 233.

t4

Id. 384.

1:8 Id 251.

Oct. 1873.]

COOPER V.

OMOHUNDRO.

Syllabus.

motion was based upon the twelfth section of the same act
of February 27th, 1801, by which it was declared that the
Circuit Court, in appeals from the Orphans' Court, shall
therein have all the power of the chancellor of the State of
Maryland; and by the laws of Maryland the decree of the
chancellor in such case was final.
It will be observed that the analogy between that case
and the present is perfect. But the court said in that case
that the conclusiveness of the sentence formed no part of
the essence of the powers of the court. Its powers to act
are as ample, independent of their final quality, as with it.
And referring to the language so often cited already, they
say : "We cannot admit that construction to be a sound one
which seeks by remote inferences to withdraw a case from
the general provisions of a statute which is clearly within its
words and perfectly consistent with its intent."
We do not feel at liberty to disregard these contemporaneous expositions of an act of Congress which has furuished the criterion of our jurisdiction ever since the coarts
of the District were established, and they are so directly in
point that we cannot dismiss the writ without overruling
them. The motion is, therefore,
DENiED.

COOPER, EXECUTOR, V. OMOHUNDRO.
The case of Folsom v. The Insurance Company (18 Wallace, 237), and the
numerous cases there cited, p. 244, affirmed, and the doctrine again declared, that where a jury is waived and the issues of fact submitted to
the Circuit Court, under the act of, M1arch 3d, 1865 (quoted in the report
of the case cited, p. 238), this court will not review the finding of the
court where it is general and unaccompanied by any authorized statement of facts; and that in the case of such general finding, "nothing is
open to review by the losing party under a writ of error except the
rulings of the Circuit Court in the progress of the trial, and that the
phrase, Irulings of the court in the progress of the trial,' does not include
the general finding of the Circuit Court nor the conclusions of the Circuit Court embodied in such general finding."
VOL. XIX.

5

