THE MAYOR V. RAY.

[Sup. Ct.

Syllabus.

V. This instruction was properly modified. The state of
the evidence hardly justified the judge in giving any instruction upon the subject to which it related.
The remaining five exceptions may be grouped and disposed of together. Neither of them requires any special remark.
We are satisfied with the rulings of the learned judge
who tried the case as to each and all of them.
We find nothing in the recNrd of which the plaintiff in
error has a right to complain.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

Dissenting, Justices FIELD and HUNT.

TiE MAYOR V. RAY.
A city corporation, the charter of which gave to it the usual powers formerly
given to such corporations, but which did not give to it the power to
borrow money, being, and, for some time having been, pecuniarily embarrassed, issued its checks, in form negotiable, and drawn by the mayor
and recorder of the city on the city treasurer. The checks were presented to the city treasurer and by him indorsed with his name and the
date of his indorsement; itbeing the practice of that officer, in the then
embarrassments of the city, thus to indorse checks when the city was
not in funds to pay them, in order that the checks might thereafter draw
interest; as it was understood that they would do. The checks were
then taken by the holder, and, according to a then prevalent custom to
pay them for taxes, were paid to the treasurer of the board of education
of the city in discharge of school taxes. This officer (again, according
to a then prevalent custom) sold them to A. (selling them for eighty
cents on the dollar), and with the money discharged the salaries due by
the city to the teachers of its public schools.
On suit by A. against the city, the court below excluded evidence tending
to show fraud and want of consideration, and authority to make them, in
the issue of the notes ; and held that under its charter the city could issue
promissory notes, and that if signed by the proper officers and given for
a goo4 ccnsideration, they would be legal and obligatory; that a usage
to reissue such securities was good, and that though upon their face
overdue they were payable on demand, and not to be deemed dishonored

Oct. 1878.]

THE MAYOR V. RAY.

469

Syllabus.
so as to let in defences against a subsequent holder, until the lapse of a
reasonable time for making demand; that the reissue, if made with the
sanction of the city authorities, would be valid, and that such sanction
might be presumed from circumstances. It gave judgment accordingly.
On the case coming here, the judgment was reversed; five judges only
out of eight, of which the court was then composed, concurring in the
judgment of reversal.
Four of these judges placed the judgment on the broad grounds:
1. That municipal corporations have not the power, without legislative authority
expressly or clearly implied, to borrow money, or to issue notes, bills, or
other securities of a commercial character, free from equitable defences in
the hands of Ioa fide holders.
2. That such corporations are of a public character, instituted for purposes of
local government, and constitute part of the domestic government of the
state; that the power of taxation is given to them for the purpose of raising
the means of carrying on their functions, and that the creation of such
special power is exclusive of others.
3. That the officers of such a corporation cannot, like the officers of a private
corporation, create, by their acts, an estoppel against the corporation, its
taxpayers, or people, so as to render illegal issues of ordinary city drafts or
vouchers (not authorized by law) valid in the hands of holders for value;
that such holders are affected with notice of the illegality.
4. That certificates of debt, city warrants, orders, checks, drafts, and the like,
used for giving to the public creditors evidence of the amount of their claims
against the city treasury, are valid instruments for that purpose, and may
be transferred from hand to hand; but that they are not commercial paper,
in the sense of creating an absolute obligation to pay them, free from legal
and equitable defences; and that the holder takes them subject to such
defences.
These judges admitted, however, and as of course, that when power to
borrow money and to issue bonds or other securities of a commercial
character therefor is given to a municipal corporation, such securities
will possess the usual qualities attaching to like securities issued by private corporations.
The remaining one of the five justices-not agreeing to all thus declared,
and holding that the city, unless clearly forbidden by its charter, could
issue negotiable notes to pay its debts, and that such notes would be
subject to the law governing negotiable paper, and holding especially
that the corporation, having received and still holding the money for the
notes, could not repudiate its contract to pay-put his concurrence in
the reversal on the narrower grounds:
1. That the judge erred in charging that though the checks had been presented
for payment, and payment had been refused; and though the time of such
presentation and refusal had been noted on them, the checks were not to
be deemed dishonorei so as to let in defences between the corporation and
a subsequent holder.

THE MAYOR V. PAY.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.
2. That the plaintiff being thus not a holder Iona fide, the court erred in excluding the offers to show fraud, corruption, or want of authority in the issue
of the checks.
3. That it erred in charging that if it was the usage of the corporation to reissue
its securities by sale in the market, after such securities had been fully paid
and satisfied, such reissued securities were obligatory upon the corporation.

ERROR to the Circuit Court for the Middle District of Ten-

nessee; the case being thus:
Ray sued the mayor and city council of N~ashville to recover the amount of nineteen corporation drafts, or orders,
ranging from a few dollars in amount to over $1000, and
together amounting, with interest, to over $9000. In form,
they were drawn by the mayor and recorder upon the city
treasurer, payable to some person named, or bearer, and
were impressed with the city seal. The following is one of
the orders, and shows the form of them all.
$1000.

No. 3521.

NASHY1LLE, December 23, 1868.

irasurer of tij Qtorporation of Nasbufillc.
Pay to A. J. Duncan, or bearer, one thousand dollars, on
account of water-work.

A. E.

ALDEN,
MIayor.

W. MILLS,
Recorder.

(Indursed :] THos. G. MARA1nE, Treasurer, December 26, 1868.

This was the form in which all city dues were usually
paid. The indorsement by the treasurer was made when
the orders were presented to him. Evidence was given by
the plaintiff tending to show that it had been the custom for
many years, when the treasurer failed to pay such checks
on presentation, for him to write his name on the back, with
the date of presentation, and afterwards, in the payment of
such checks, to allow interest from that date, and that it
was usual to present such checks for indorsement to draw
interest when it was known there were no funds for their
payment; also, that it was the well-known custom of the

Oct. 1873.]

THE MAYOR V. RAY.
Statement of the case.

proper collecting officers of the corporation to receive such
checks for taxes and other dues of the corporation; that at
the time these checks were issued, and at the time they were
bought by the plaintiff, the city was largely involved in
debt, and that many such checks were outstanding unpaid,
and were bought and sold in the market, and that nearly
all the city taxes were paid therewith; that for some time
before the plaintiff purchased the checks in question the
taxes for the support of public schools were collected and
paid over to the treasurer of the board of education in such
checks; and for about five months before, it had been the
practice of such treasurer to sell such checks and to use the
proceeds in payment of teachers; also, that all the checks
sued on (except one for $1000, payable to Julius Sax), were
so received for taxes, and paid to the said treasurer of the
board of education, and by him sold soon after receiving
them to one McCrory as agent of the plaintiff to buy the
same, at the rate of eighty cents on the dollar, and the proeeeds paid to teachers; that the check payable to Sax was
purchased from him by McOrory, as the plaintiff's agent,
for $800, being one of sixteen checks of $1000 each, issued
by order of the chairman of the finance committee of the
city council without any order of the council, and hypothecated with Sax as security for a loan of $12,000, payable in
four months (half of which was made in city checks), power
being given in the loan note to sell the hypothecated checks,
if the loan was not paid when due. Sax sold the check in
question to the plaintiff within a week after receiving it.
The plaintiff also offered the evidence of the city recorder
to show that the checks sued on were made in the usual
course of business of the corporation and for corporation
purposes; also, evidence tending to show that the city collector, in collecting checks for taxes, was in the habit, in
making change, of paying out checks previously collected,
and that the mayor and council were informed of the practice pursued by the collector of reissuing checks which he
had received in payment of taxes by paying a portion of
them over to the board of education, and knew of the prac-

THE MAYOR V. IAY.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

tice of issuing and hypothecating checks for loans and selling them for money.
The defendant introduced proof tending to show that
MeCrory, the agent of the plaintiff, when he purchased the
eighteen checks, had notice that they had been received by
the tax collector and reissued by him to the treasurer of the
board of education (the evidence showing that the presentation and neglect to pay had in most instances been made
nearly two months before, and in one instance nearly four
months); also, that the city council had no knowledge of
the manner of making checks on the mere order of the
chairman of the finance committee, and their hypothecation
and sale for money; and that some of them had no knowledge of the reissue of checks by the collector.
The charter and ordinances of the city were put in evideuce, and were referred to on the argument before this court.
The former was couched in the usual form of such charters, conferring upon the corporation power to receive, hold,
and dispose of property, to levy taxes, appropriate money,
and provide for the payment of the debts and expenses of
the city; to establish hospitals, schools, water-works, markets, and erect buildings necessary for the use of the city;
to open, regulate, and light the streets; to establish a police,
night watch, &c., and to pass all ordinances necessary to
carry out the intent of the charter.
It contained, however, no express power to borrow money.
But former laws (which were superseded by the charter) had
authorized the issue of specific city bonds for that purpose;
and such securities were outstanding in 1868, as appeared by
an act of the legislature, passed March 16th of that year, by
which it was provided that the taxes necessary to pay the
coupons and interest on the bonds and funded debt of the
city should be kept distinct and should be payable only in
legal currency, and no checks or orders of the city were to
be received therefor. It was also enacted by the same statute that the amount necessary to be raised by tax for the
sinking fund for paying said bonds, and for the support of
the public schools, should be paid in the same manner.

Oct. 1873-j

TE MAYOR V. RAY.

473

Statement of the case.

The public ordinances of the city were published in a
book, and by these it was, among other things, provided
that there should be a committee of improvements and expenditures, and that all propositions for improvements, or
the expenditure of money, or the incurring of any liability,
should be referred to this committee, who were to report to
the city council, and that no liability should be incurred
unless authorized by existing laws, or by order of the city
council, and that no check should be issued by the recorder
upon the treasurer, unless by authority of the city council,
or in pursuance of existing laws of the corporation.
The defendant offered proof tending to show that there
was no evidence of any authority having ever been given
by the city council for the issue or reissue of checks in
the manner in which the checks in question were issued
and reissued; and that one of them (specified) had been
issued in virtue of a corrupt contract with a member of
the council. The proof was rejected under the defendant's
exception.
The court charged in substance as follows: That the charter of Nashville authorized the corporation to issue promissory notes and other securities for lawful debts; that the instruments in question, if signed by the proper officers and
given for a good consideration, were, in effect, promissory
notes, legal and obligatory; that by long usage the corporation had sanctioned the authority of the officers to issue
such instruments; that the purchasers thereof were authorized to presume that they were properly issued; that if it
was the usage to reissue these securities by sale in the market, they would, when so sold, be obligatory on the corporation; and, though upon their face overdue, they would be
in law payable on demand, and not to be deemed dishonored
so as to let in defences against a subsequent holder of the
paper, until after the lapse of a reasonable time for making
demand; that the reissue and sale of the securities in question by the treasurer of the board of education, if done by
the consent and sanction of the mayor, aldermen, and council, made them valid obligations against the city; and that

474

TE MAYOR v. RAY.

[Sup.

at.

Statement of the case.

such consent and sanction might be presumed from the publicity of the transactions, the want of other resources to support the schools, and the other circumstances of the case,
without any formal official action taken on the subject; and
that the common usage of the finance committee, to pledge
the city checks as security for its notes, if known to the corporation, was binding upon it, and that the checks so pledged
would be valid in the hands of a purchaser before maturity,
not having notice of a premature sale or other irregularity
in their issue.
This charge was excepted to in all its parts, and upon
these exceptions the case was argued before this court in
reference to the following points:
1. Has a municipal corporation the power, without express legislative authority, to borrow money f6r any of the
purposes of its incorporation ?
2. Has it the power, without express legislative authority,
to issue its paper clothed with all the attributes of negotiability?
3. Conceding the affirmative of these two queries, can the
executive officers 'of a municipal corporation borrow money,
or issue negotiable securities for the corporation, so as to
bind it, without "ordinance;" that is to say, without express authority from the legislative department of the corporate government in its collective official capacity ?*
The case was elaborately argued, both upon principle and
authorities, on these points, by Messrs. F. F. and H. Cooper,
for the plaintiff in error, and by Messrs. G. F. -Edmunds and
R. McP. Smith, contra; the latter counsel referring specially
to Adams v. The Memphis and Little Rock Railroad Company,
in the Supreme Court of Tenuessee,t in which State the
transactions now in question arose.
* There was no regular assignment of errors in the case, such as is required by the 21st Rule (11 Wallace, ix), and the court was at first indisposed to hear the case. However, by a careful inspection of the brief of the
plaintiff in error, the three points here mentioned were considered as being,
in substance, assignei, and on them alone the oral argument was made.
t 2 Coldwell, 645.

Oct. 1873.']

THiE MAYOR V. RAY.

OpiLion of Bradley, Miller, Davis, and Field, JJ.

Mr. Justice BRADLEY delivered the judgment of the
court, and the opinion of himself and Justices MILLER,
DAVIS, and FIELD; Mr. Justice HUNT concurring in
the judgment.
A municipal corporation is a subordinate branch of the
domestic government of a State. It is instituted for public
purposes only; and has none of the peculiar qualities and
characteristics of a trading corporation, instituted for purposes of private gain, except that of acting in a corporate
capacity. Its objects, its responsibilities, and its powers are
different. As a local governmental institution, it exists for
the benefit of the people within its corporate limits. The
legislature invests it with such powers as it deems adequate
to the ends to be accomplished. The power of taxation is
usually conferred for the purpose of enabling it to raise the
necessary funds to carry on the city government and to make
such public improvements as it is authorized to make. As
this is a power which immediately affects the entire constituency of the municipal body which exercises it, no evil
consequences are likely to ensue from its being conferred;
although it is not unusual to affix limits to its exercise for
any single year. The power to borrow money is different.
When this is exercised the citizens are immediately affected
only by the benefit arising from the loan; its burden is not
"felt till afterwards. Such a power does not belong to a municipal corporation as an incident of its creation. To be
possessed it must be conferred by legislation, either express
or implied. It does not belong, as a mere matter of course,
to local governments to raise loans. Such governments are
not created for any such purpose. Their powers are prescribed by their charters, and those charters provide the
means for exercising the powers; and the creation of specific
means excludes others. Indebtedness may be incurred to a
limited extent in carrying out the objects of the incorporation. Evidences of such indebtedness may be given to the
public creditors. But they must look to and rely on the
legitimate mode of raising the funds for its payment. That
mode is taxation.

TiE MAYOR V. RAY.

[Sup. Or.

Opinion of Bradley, filler, Davis, and Field, JJ.

Our system of local and municipal government is copied,
in its general features, from that of England. ITo evidence
is adduced to show that the practice of borrowing money
has been used by the cities and towns of that country without an act of Parliament authorizing it. We believe no
such practice has ever obtained.
Much less can any precedent be found (except of modern
date and in this country) for the issue, by local civil authorities, of promissory notes, bills of exchange, and other commercial paper. At a period within the memory of man the
proposal of such a thing would have been met with astonishment. The making of such paper was originally confined
to merchants. But its great convenience was the means of
extending its use, first to all individuals and afterwards to
private corporations having occasion to make promises to
pay money. Being only themselves responsible for the
paper they issue, no evil consequences can follow sufficient
to counterbalance the conveniencies and benefits derived
from its use. They know its immunity, in the hands of a
bondfide holder, from all defences and equities. Knowing
this, if they choose to issue it, no one is injured but themselves. But if city and town officials should have the power
thus to bind their constituencies, it is easy to see what abuses
might, and probably would, ensue. We know from experience what abuses have been practiced where the power has
been conferred. Fraudulent issues, peculations, and embezzlements, and the accumulation of vast amounts of indebtedness, without any corresponding public benefit, have
been rendered easy and secure from merited punishment.
The purpose and object of a municipal corporation do not
ordinarily require the exercise of any such power. They
are not trading corporations and ought not to become such.
They are invested with public trusts of a governmental and
administrative character; they are the local governments of
the people, established by them as their representatives in
the management and administration of municipal affairs
affecting the peace, good order, and general well-being of
the community as a political society and district; and in-

Oct. 1873.]

THE MAYOR v. RAY.

Opinion of Bradley, Miller, Davis, and Field, JJ.

vested with power by taxation to raise the revenues necessary for those purposes. The idea that they have the incidental power to issue an unlimited amount of obligations
of such a character as to be irretrievably binding on the
people, without a shadow of consideration in return, is the
growth of a modern misconception of their true object and
character. If in the exercise of their important trusts the
power to borrow money and to issue bonds or other commercial securities is needed, the legislature can easily confer
it under the proper limitations and restraints, and with
proper provisions for future repayment. Without such authority it cannot be legally exercised. It is too dangerous a
power to be exercised by all municipal bodies indiscriminately, managed as they are by persons whose individual responsibility is not at stake.
Vouchers for money due, certificates of indebtedness for
services rendered or for property furnished for the uses of
the city, orders or drafts drawn by one city officer upon another, or any other device of the kind, used for liquidating
the amounts legitimately due to public creditors, are of
course necessary instruments for carrying on the machinery
of municipal administration, and for anticipating the collection of taxes. But to invest such documents with the character and incidents of commercial paper, so as to render
them in the hands of bondfide holders absolute obligations
to pay, however irregularly or fraudulently issued, is an
abuse of their true character and purpose. It has the effect
of converting a municipal organization into a trading company, and puts it in the power of corrupt officials to involve
a political community in irretrievable bankruptcy. No such
power ought to exist, and in our opinion no such power
does legally exist, unless conferred by legislative enactment,
either express or clearly implied.
There are cases, undoubtedly, in which it is proper and
desirable that a limited power of this kind should be conferred, as where some extensive public work is to be performed, the expense of which is beyond the immediate resources of reasonable taxation, and capable of being fairly

THE MAYOR v. RAY.

.[Sup.

Ct.

Opinion of Bradley, Miller, Davis, and Field, JJ.

and justly spread over an extended period of time. Such
cases, however, belong to the exercise of legislative discretion, and are to be governed and regulated thereby. Where
the power is clearly given, and securities have been issued
in conformity therewith, they will stand on the same basis
and be entitled to the same privileges as public securities
and commercial paper generally.
But where the power has not been given, parties must
take municipal orders; drafts, certificates, and other documents of the sort at their peril. Custom and usage may
have so far assimilated them to regular commercial paper as
to make them negotiable, that is, transferable by delivery or
indorsement. This quality renders them more convenient
for the purposes of the holder, and has, undoubtedly, led to
the idea so frequently, but, as we think, erroneously, entertained, that they are invested with that other characteristic
of commercial paper-freedom from all legal and equitable
defences in the hanls of a boncfide holder. But every holder
of a city order or certificate knows, that to be valid and
genuine at all, it must have been issued as a voucher for
city indebtedness. It could not be lawfully issued for any
other purpose. He must take it, therefore, subject to the
risk that it has been lawfully and properly issued. His
claim to be a bonafide holder will always be subject to this
qualification. The face of the paper itself is notice to him
that its validity depends upon the regularity of its issue.
The officers of the city have no authority to issue it for any
illegal or improper purpose, and their acts cannot create an
estoppel against the city itself, its taxpayers, or people.
Persons receiving it from them know whether it is issued,
and whether they receive it, for a proper purpose and a
proper consideration. Of course they are affected by the
absence of these essential ingredients; and all subsequent
holders take cum onere, and are affected by the same defect.
We consider these principles to be so sound and fundamental as to make it a matter of some surprise that a different view should have been taken by some jurists of eminent
ability. The cases on the subject are conflicting and irrecon-

Oct. 1873.]

TnE MAYOR V. RAY.

Opinion of Bradley,

Iiller, Davis, and Field, JJ.

cilable. It could not serve any useful purpose to make an
elaborate review of them. We have endeavored clearly
and explicitly, though briefly, to state the views which we
entertain, and in accordance with which we think the questions in this case must be decided.
Much stress has been laid upon the decision of the Supreme Court of Tennessee, in the case of Adams v. The Memphs and Little .Rock -ailroad Company.* The mayor and
common council of the city of Memphis, under a charter
similar to that of Nashville, had mortgaged certain property belonging to the city, called the navy-yard property,
which had been given to it by the United States for the use
and benefit of the city, to secure the payment of $300,000
of the bonds of the Memphis and Little Rock Railroad Compauy. The road of this company extended from a point
opposite the city to Little Rock, in Arkansas, and was
deemed of great advantage to the city of Memphis. The
rents and profits of this property were also appropriated by
the mortgage to the payment of the interest on the bonds
thus secured, and to the raising of a sinking fund to meet
the principal when due; and authority was given to the
trustees of the mortgage to enter and lease, or sell in case
of default in the payment of interest or principal. The
court held that the general power contained in the city
charter to sell, lease, and dispose of the property of the corporation fbr the use and benefit of the city, authorized this
transaction; and that the purpose for which the mortgage
was given was a proper corporation purpose within the
meaning of the charter. Other doctrines were propounded
in the opinion of the court in reference to the implied powers
of municipal corporations, which were not necessary to the
decision of the case, and need not be adverted to here. The
decision itself does not, in our apprehension, necessarily
conflict with the views which we have stated above. We
proceed, therefore, to the consideration of the particular
facts of this case.
2 Coldwell, 645.

THE MAYOR V. RAY.

[Sup. Ct

Opinion of Bradley, Miller, Davis, and Field, JJ.

The eighteen checks purchased of the treasurer of the
board of education will be first considered. In the absence
of proof to the contrary, it may be presumed that they were
properly issued at their inception. Evidence was offered
by the defendants, it is true, tending to show that they had
not been issued in accordance with the laws and ordinances
of the city. But the view which we have taken of their reissue and sale by the treasurer of the board of education,
renders it unnecessary to consider that aspect of the case.
It is conceded that they had been received by the collector
in payment of taxes due to the city. As evidences of indebtedness, where this was done, they were funclus officio.
They were paid and satisfied. They ceased to have any
validity. They could not be reissued without the authority
of the city council. Certainly the treasurer of the board of
education had no authority thus to reissue them or sell
them. Such an authority would render him controller and
dispenser of the city credit. If he had authority to sell them
for one price, he had authority to sell them for another; and
there is no limit to which he would thus have power to involve the city in debt. Nor can the purchaser waive his
claim to recover the amount of the checks, and demand a
reimbursement of the money which he actually paid. Considered as a money transaction, and not as a purchase of
the paper, it would amount to a loan and borrowing of
money on the city account. And where can authority be
found for the treasurer of the board of education to borrow
money on account of the city? The city council may, no
doubt, assume the responsibility of the transaction and make
proper provision, as perhaps in equity ought to be done, for
the repayment of the money so advanced. But the transaction had not the support of legal authority, and hence the
money cannot be recovered in this action.
The remaining check of $1000, purchased from Sax, was
pledged or hypothecated, with fifteen others of like amount,
to Sax as collateral security for a loan of $12,000, payable in
four months. This loan was secured by a note given at the
same time, which recited the pledge or hypothecation of the

Oct. 1873.]

THE MAYOR V. RAY.

Opinion of Mr. Justice Hunt, concurring in the judgment.

sixteen checks, and gave Sax power to sell them if the note
was not paid at maturity. Sax, instead of waiting to see if
the note would be paid, sold the checks thus pledged, or at
least the one in question, within a week after the loan was
effected. This, of course, was not only an unauthorized, it
was a dishonest transaction, and could give no title to the
purchaser as against the city. In the first place the finance
committee, or its chairman, had no legal authority thus to
pledge the evidences of city indebtedness and give to the
pledgee the power of selling the same for any price he
could get. In this way an untold amount of debt could be
piled up against the city without any adequate consideration
received therefor, and all the evil consequences before adverted to would be liable to follow the exercise of such a
power. This very instance forcibly illustrates the mischievous results that would follow from inferring an incidental
power in a municipal corporation to issue commercial securities. The check in question has the same form and appearance as all the other checks which the city officers are in
the habit of issuing for ordinary city indebtedness. It must
be subject to the same general rule of being valid or otherwise, according as it was properly or improperly, lawfully
or unlawfully, issued. And the subsequent holder, whether
purchaser or otherwise, takes it with all the oiginal defects
of title.
The judgment must be reversed, and a venire de novo
awarded.
Mr. Justice HUNT: I concur in the judgment of this
court reversing the judgment at the circuit, and remanding the case for further proceedings. I do not, however,
concur in some of the grounds upon which the reversal is
placed in the opinion deli~ered by Mr. Justice Bradley, and
as my concurrence is necessary to the rendering of the judgment, there is a manifest propriety in an expression of the
grounds of my concurrence.
I am of the opinion that the judge erred in charging and
deciding that if the checks "are, upon their face, overdue
VOL. XIX.

31

182

THE MAYOR V. RAY.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of Mr. Justice Hunt, concurring in the judgment.

at the time of such sale (that is their reissue and sale), they
will be in law payable on demand, and are not to be deemed
dishonored so as to let in defences between the company
and a subsequent holder of the paper until after the lapse
of a reasonable time after their reissue for the making of
such demand." All of the checks in question had been
presented for payment. Payment was not made, but the
time of presentation was noted in each instance, and interest
was allowed upon the check from that date. The presentation and neglect to pay had been made in some instances
nearly four months before such purchase, and the time of
such presentation was noted upon the check by the city
treasurer, and it bore interest from that date. A check requires no presentment for acceptance as distinguished from
presentment for payment. If once presented and payment
fide holder
refused, it is dishonored.* To constitute a bonJ
of a note or check it is necessary-I. That it should have
been received before maturity; 2. That a valuable consideration should have been paid for it; and 3. That it should
have been taken without knowledge of the defences sought
to be made.
Whatever defences could properly be made to these checks
in the hands of the original holder could be made while they
were in the plaintiff's hands. iHe was not a bondfide holder.
Evidence to show fraud or corruption, or want of authority
in their issue, should have been received at the circuit, and
in excluding the offers made on that subject and in the
charge in reference to the evidence given, I think there was
error. Thus, the Sax check, it was alleged, had been issued
without authority, hypothecated to secure a note of the city
made without authority, and sold in violation of the terms
of the hypothecation. It was open to this defence in the
hands of the plaintiff
In the case of another check it was offered to be proved
that it was issued without authority and upon a corrupt contract, but the evidence was excluded.
* Chitty on Bills, 272, m.

Oct. 1873.]

THE MAYOR V. RAY.

Opinion of Mr. Justice Hunt, concurring in the judgment.

The court in another place charged the jury that "if it is
the usage to reissue the securities by sale in the market,
they will, when so sold, be obligatory upon the corporation."
I cannot think that it is lawful for a municipal corporation
to issue its checks, pay them, reissue them, and repeat this
operation as often as its convenience requires. This comes
too near the character of a bank of issue and deposit.
In the particulars following, my views are different from
those expressed in the opinion of Justice Bradley.
I hold it to be well established by the authorities that a
municipal corporation may borrow money for the legitimate
use of the corporation, and that it may issue its notes for
the same unless expressly prohibited by its charter or by
statute from so doing. The proposition that it cannot borrow money, unless by its charter expressly authorized to do
so, is,in my opinion, unsustained by sound authority.*
That the securities thus issued by municipal corporations
are subject to the rules of commercial law when held by a
bond fide holder has been repeatedly held by this court.
Every recent volume of its reports contains authorities to
this effect. The authorities of the State of Tennessee sustain these general views.t
Checks of the city were issued for the payment of particular debts, and when paid should, no doubt, under ordinary circumstances, have been cancelled. A reissue of a paid
check is an extraordinary proceeding. If done by an officer
without the authority of the common council, it is a gross
violation of duty. If with that authority, it isa loose practice, liable to abuse. Whether such reissue would be an
act of positive illegality, ultra vires merely, or a bad practice
simply, it is not necessary to decide. In neither case can
the city repudiate the transaction. It is upon this point
* Whitewater Valley Canal Company v. Vallette, 21 Howard, 424, and
82, 83, and notes, where the
see 1 Dillon on Municipal Corporations,
author-ties are collected both from the State courts and from this court.
-Adams v.The Memphis and Little Rock Railroad Company, 2 Coldwell, 645.

THE MAYOR V. RAY.

[Sup. Ot.

Opinion of Mr. Justice Hunt, concurring in the judgment.

chiefly that I desire to express my dissent from the opinion
just delivered. As to all the checks in question, the record
shows that they were paid over by the collector of city taxes
to the treasurer of the board of education, that they were by
him sold to Mcrory, at eighty cents on the dollar, and that
the proceeds of such sales were applied to the uses of the
city by an immediate payment of the wages due to the
teachers in the public schools of the city. The city received
this money upon the reissue of its checks. So far as
McCrory is concerned, or the plaintiff who succeeds to his
rights, the city now has the money in its treasury.
It is a general rule, applicable to all persons and corporations, and is a dictate of plain honesty, that whoever, knowing the facts of the case, retains and uses money received
by an agent for his account, cannot repudiate the contract
on which it is received.* Putting this transaction most
strongly against the plaintiff, by assuming that this reissue
was not ultra vires merely, but was positively prohibited by
law, the city is still responsible to the holder of the checks
for the money it has received and still retains. Conceding
the illegal contract to be void, as forbidden by the legislature, it is to be remembered that the prohibition is upon the
city only, and not upon the person dealing with it; the illegality is on the part of the city, and not of the person receiving the checks. The contract may well be void as to the
city, and its officers punishable for the offence of making it,
and yet it may stand in favor of innocent persons not within
the prohibition. Such was the decision in Tracy v. Talmage,t in Curtis v. Leavitt,j and in The Oneida Bank v. The
Ontario Bank.ยง The latter case was briefly this: The general banking law of ew York prohibited the issuance by a
bank of a certificate of deposit payable on time. The cashier
of the Ontario Bank received $5000 in cash from one Perry,
snd delivered to him a certificate of deposit post-dated about
four weeks, for the purpose of raising funds for the bank.
* Bissell v. City of Joffersonville, 24 Howard, 300; Sedgwick on Statu.
tory and Constitutional Law, 90.
J 21 Ii. 490.
1 15 Id. 9.
j 14 New York, 162.

Oct. 1873.]

THE MAYOR v. LINDSEY.
Statement of the case.

This draft Perry transferred to the Oneida Bank, who
brought suit upon it. It was held, assuming this draft to
be void, that the party making the contract could reject ,the
security and recover the money or value which lie advanced
on receiving it. It was held further, that the right of action
to recover this money passed to the Oneida Bank upon the
transfer of the certificate to them. The plaintiff recovered
the money advanced to the bank upon the illegal certificate.
Both of these principles were held with equal distinctness in
Tracy v. Talmage, supra.
They seem to me to be decisive of the right of the plaintiff to recover upon the checks, regarding them in their
most unfavorable aspect, the amount of money advanced to
and yet held by the city.
For the reasons thus presented, I concur in the reversal
of the judgment.
JUDGMENT REVERSED,

and a
VENIRE DE NOVO AWARDED.

Mr. Justice CLIFFORD, dissenting:
I dissent from the opinion and judgment in this case,
chiefly upon two grounds: (1) Because I think the opinion
restricts quite too much the powers of municipal corporations; and (2), because the doctrines of the opinion, as applied to negotiable securities of a commercial character, are
repugnant to the well-settled rules of law established by the
repeated decisions of this court.
Mr. Justice SWAYNE and Mr. Justice STRONG also
dissented.
NOTE.
AT the same time with the preceding case, and by the same
counsel, was argued the case of
THE MAYOR V. LINDSEY.

In error to the same Circuit Court, for the Middle District of
Tennessee. In this case Lindsey sued the mayor of Nashville

