Oct. 1873.]

BURKE V. MILTENBERGER.

Statement of the case.

BURKE V. iMILTINBERGER.
1. The Provisional Court of Louisiana, established by President Lincoln on
the 20th of October, 1862, did not cease to exist until July 28th, 1866,
when Congress by statute of that day provided for the transfer of cases
pending in it, and of its judgments and decrees, to the proper courts of
the United States.
2. This court does not take judicial notice of the various orders issued by a
military commander in the exercise of the military authority conferred
upon him.
ERROR to the Supreme Court of Louisiana; the case being
thus:
During the recent rebellion, which broke out in the spring
of 1861, the State of Louisiana having involved herself in
it, the courts of the United States, in the year just named,
were excluded from her limits. On the 1st of May, 1862,
however, the government troops had captured and occupied
the city of New Orleans, and held military possession of it
and of certain small parts of the State which had submitted
themselves to the lawful authority. But everything was
unsettled and insecure. In this condition of things, President Lincoln, on the 20th of October, 1862, issued an executive order, establishing a Provisional Court in Louisiana.
It ran thus:
"The insurrection which has for some time prevailed in several of the States of this Union, including Louisiana, having
temporarily subverted and sWept away the civil institutions of
that State, including the judiciary and the judicial authorities
of the Union, so that it has become necessary to hold the State
in military occupation; and it being indispensably necessary
that there shall be some judicial tribunal existing there capable
of administering justice, I have, therefore, thought it proper to
appoint, and I do hereby constitute a Provisional Court, which
shall be a court of record for the State of Louisiana, and I do
hereby appoint Charles A. Peabody, of New York, to be a provisional judge to hold said court, with authority to hear, try,
and determine, all causes, civil and criminal, including causes in
law, equity, revenue, and admiralty, and particularly all such

BURKE V. MILTENBERGER.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

powers and jurisdiction as belong to the District and Circuit
Courts of the United States, conforming his proceedings, so
far as possible, to the course of proceedings and practice which
has been customary in the courts of the United States and Louisiana; his judgment to be final and conclusive. And I do
hereby authorize and empower the said judge to make and
establish such rules and regulations as may be necessary for the
exercise of his jurisdiction, and to appoint a prosecuting attorney, marshal, and clerk of the said court, who shall perform the
functions of attorney, marshal, and clerk, according to such
proceedings and practice as before mentioned, and such rules
and regulations as may be made and established by said judge.
These appointments are to continue during the pleasure of the
President, not extending beyond the military occupation of the city
of N ew Orleans, or the restoration of the civil authority in that city
and in the State of Louisiana. A copy of this order, certified by
the Secretary of War, and delivered to such judge, shall be
deemed and held to be a sufficient commission. Let the seal of
the United States be hereunto affixed."
This court having been thus established, one Miltenberger
sued a certain Tregre in it, and on the 26th of April, 1865,
got judgment against him. On execution issued on the
judgment, a plantation near New Orleans, belonging to
Tregre, was seized and on the 3d of June, 1865, sold by the
marshal of the court. The f. fa. was regular, apparently, in
form. The plantation was bought in by -iltenberger, who
took and kept possession of it.
Subsequently to this, one Burke 'having got judgment
against.this same Tregre, was about to sell the plantation
as if still owned by Tregre. Miltenberger intervened, claiming the plantation as owner under the sale to him, already
mentioned, as made on the 3d of June, 1865. And the
question was whether that sale was valid or void. Tregre
asserted that it was void, because by the terms of the executive order constituting the Provisional Court, the appointment of the judge and of the officers, in other words, the
existence of the court was not to extend "beyond the military occupation of the city of New Orleans, or the restoration of the civil authority in that city and in the State of Lou-

Oct. 1873.']

BURKE V. MILTENBERGER.
Statement of the case.

isiana;" which military occupation, he alleged, had ceased
before the sale was made, or even the judgment signed; civil
authority being then restored, as he alleged, in the State
and city. The Provisional Court itself having been declared
by this tribunal to have been constitutionally established,*
the matter to be now settled was when did the authority of
the court end? or rather, had it ended on the 3d of June,
1865, when the plantation which Burke sought to charge as
against Miltenberger was sold by the person assuming to act
as marshal of the court?
This, to some extent, was a matter of historical fact. The
order of events seemed thus:
1862. May 1. The military occupation of New Orleans,
already spoken of as having been first made on this day,
continued uninterrupted.
1863. The District Court of the United States was reorganized and a judge appointed.
1864. July. The loyal people of the State, assuming to
be its true population, met in convention and adopted a constitution in harmony with the supremacy of the Union, and
with lawful government.
1864. A legislature under this constitution was elected
and soon after assembled and passed laws; one of its acts
being a ratification of the thirteenth amendment. Other
acts reorganized the Supreme and District Courts of the
State.
[These political acts of the State, however, were accomplished by but a comparatively small part of the actual
population of the State; and in the presence of the superior
military forces of the government.]
1865. April 9. The rebel Lee surrendered.
1865. May. The cases reported in Seventeenth Annual
Reports begin.
1865. May 10. The President proclaimedt that the insurrection in the several States "may be regarded as virtually
at an end."
* The Grapeshot, 9 Wallace, 130.

t 13 Star. at Large, 757.

BURKE V. MILTENBERGER.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

1865. May 17. As was said by the counsel of Burke. MajorGeneral Banks, commanding the headquarters of the Gulf,
issued a general order thus, suspending the collection of
claims upon plantation property:
"To secure the payment of wages and other expenses incident to the cultivation of the soil, the sale of the property used
for this purpose, on execution or other process of law, is hereby
prohibited and suspended until the 1st day of February,1866. The
intention of this order being not to prejudice just claims, but to
suspend their collection until the crops of the year can be matured."
Nothing on this matter, however, appeared in the record,
and there was nothing to show that this order had been
brought to the attention of any court below.
1865. May 26. The rebel Johnston surrendered.
1865. May 26. Kirby Smith, the last of the rebel leaders,
surrendered in Texas.
1865. June 3. The sale in dispute was made; the city of
New Orleans being still and for some time afterwards occupied by the troops of the United States.
1866. April 2. In the case of The Protector,*where
a motion was made to dismiss a writ of error on the ground that
more than five years had elapsed between the date of the
decree appealed from and the filing of the appeal, allowing
the suspension of time produced by the war, this court held
that in certain States, including Louisiana, the war was to
be taken to have ended when the President proclaimed it
ended, which in those States was the day just mentioned,
April 2d, 1866. And in Adger v. Alston,t the same date
was fixed on a plea of the statute of limitations on a bond.
1866. July 28. Congress passed an actt by which all pending suits in the Provisional Courts were directed to be transferred to the Circuit and District Courts of the United States,
to be proceeded with as if originally commenced therein.
The court below sustained the validity of the sale, and
Burke appealed.
*12 Wallace, 7G0.

t 15 Id. 560.

$ 14 Star. at harge, 344.

Oct. 1873.]

BURKE V. MILTENBERGER.
Argument against the validity of the sale.

Mr. P. Phillips, with whom was Mr. 3T. B. Beckwith, for the
appellant:
L The Provisional Court was a court engendered of revolution and war. It was constituted in the face of the words
of the Constitution. Every intendment against its acts performed in a time when revolution was no longer going on,
and when war had completely ceased is to be made. The
constitutionality of the court was indeed settled in The
Grapeshot; but that was its constitutionality within the exact
limits mentioned.
Now, on the 3d of June, 1865, when this sale was made;
every general of the Confederate forces had surrendered;
the forces themselves were dispersed and wandering to ,their
homes or fleeing to foreign lands. The war had been officially proclaimed to be "virtually ended." The court, therefore, had expired, and its judge, prosecuting attorney, marshal, and clerk, were in the status of unofficial life. The
fact that the government troops remained in New Orleans
and feebly imitated military occupation, does not greatly
help the opposing case. The troops had to be somewhere,
and there had to be a commander over them.
II. But if the sale is defended on the grounds of a military
occupation of the city, the answer is that the order of General
Banks of May 17th, 1865, made the sale unlawful. It was
a military order, in full force, known to the officers of the
Provisional Court. As was said in .umphreys v. Browne :*
"It was an injunction issued by competent and paramount
authority, and did not authorize the sale to be made on the day
which had been fixed. Whether the cause was sufficient or insufficient, the order had the effect of staying all proceedings."
In any view, therefore, the sale was void. If the civil
authority had, on the 3d of June, 1865, superseded military
rule, then the Provisional Court had ceased to exist by the
terms of th organizing act. If, on the contrary, military
rule still existed on that date, then the order of General
Banks was obligatory.
* 19 Louisiana Annual, 158.

BUnKE v. MILTENBERGER.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

The act of Congress of July 28th, it may be added, did
ziot give validity to any judgment or pending proceeding in
the Provisional Court. It simply directs their transfer to
tribunals unquestionably lawful.
Mr. 7 J

Durant, contra.

Mr. Justiue DAVIS delivered the opinion of the court.
The only question in this case for our consideration is,
whether the Provisional Court of Louisiana, established by
the President on the 20th of October, 1862, had ceased to
exist, by the terms of the order creating it, on the 3d day of
June, 1865, when the plantation in dispute was sold by the
marshal of that court, on aft. fa. regularly issued, and purchased by Miltenberger, who took immediate possession of
it, and has remained in possession ever since.
The institution of this court was a necessity, on account
of the disturbed state of affairs in Louisiana, caused by the
civil war, and the authority of the President to establish it
was sustained in the case of The Grapeshot, reported in 9th
Wallace.* The duration of the court was limited to the
restoration of civil authority in the State, and it is insisted
that this limitation expired when the last Confederate general, Kirby Smith, surrendered, which was on the 26th of
May, 1865; but this position is inconsistent with the fact
conceded on the argument, that military rule prevailed in
the city of N ew Orleans, and the State of Louisiana, for a
long time after this event, and after the sale in controversy
was made. This in itself is conclusive proof that civil authority was not then restored, and that the Provisional Court
was in the rightful exercise of its jurisdiction.
We do not care, however, to rest our decision on this
ground alone, although it is sufficient to dispose of this case,
as that court may have transacted business after the military
occupation ceased, and it is important, therefore, to settle
when its jurisdiction terminated.
* Page 130.

Oct. 1873.]

BURKE V.

MILTENBERGER.

Opinion of the court.

It is very clear that the restoration of civil authority in
any State could not take place until the close of the rebellion
in that State; and the point of time at which this occurred
has been the subject of consideration by this court in several
cases involving the application of statutes of limitation.*
The principle established by these cases is, as the war did
not begin or close at the same time in all the States, that its
commencement and termination in any State is to be determined by some public act of the political departments of the
government. This action has fixed the 2d day of April,
1866, as the day in which the rebellion closed in all the
States but Texas, and the 20th of August following, as the
date of its entire suppression.
It does not, however, follow that the President's proclamation of April 2d, 1866, ipso facto, dissolved the Provisional
Court of Louisiana, although it unquestionably authorized
its dissolution. It is plain to be seen that its dissolution,
without proper provision for the business before it, as well
as that which had been disposed of, would have produced
serious injury, and this state of things, requiring the action
of Congress, was doubtless recognized by the President, as
nothing is said in the proclamation about this court. If it
was subject to be dissolved as soon as the proclamation appeared, and was no longer a court de jure, it still had a de
facto existence until its actual dissolution. This took place
on the 28th of July, 1866,t when Congress provided for the
transfer of cases pending in that court, and of its judgments
and decrees, to the proper courts of the United States. The
power of Congress to do this was recognized in The Grapeshot, and, indeed, we do not see how it could be questioned,
if, as we have decided, its establishment was a rightful exercise of the constitutional authority of the President, during
a state of war.
It is contended by the plaintiff in error that an order of
General Banks, in military command at New Orleans, during
* United States v. Anderson, 9 Wallace, 56; The Protector, 12 Id. 700;
Adger v. Alston, 15 Id. 560.
t 14 Stat. at Large, 344.

HEAD

V.

THE UNIVERSITY.

[Sup. Ot.

Statement of the case.

the period of this controversy, which is set out at length in
the brief of counsel, operated as an injunction upon the
proceedings of the marshal, and that, therefore, the sale of
the plantation was unauthorized. The answer to this position is that, in the state of the pleadings and evidence, we
are not at liberty to pass upon the legality of this order, or
to determine what effect should be given to it if properly
issued. It is not in the record at all, and for aught that appears, was never brought to the notice of either of the courts
in Louisiana engaged in the decision of the case.
It may be that the courts of the country would take judicial notice that Louisiana, at the time mentioned, was in the
military occupation of our forces, under General Banks, but
we know of no rule of law or practice requiring this, or
any other court, to take notice of the various orders issued
by a military commander in the exercise of the authority
conferred upon.im.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

HEAD V. THE UNIVERSITY.
*Where in a university of learning, belonging to the State, and which the
State was in the habit of governing through curators appointed by
itself (such as the University of Missouri), a person was appointed by
the curators a professor and librarian, for six years from the date of his
b c
appointment, "su je t to law." held that the legislature could vacate his
office, appoint new curators, and without fault on the part of the professor assigned, order a new election of a professor to the same professorship, and of a librarian, before the expiration of the six years.

ERROR to the Supreme Court of Missouri.
Head, late professor of mathematics and also librarian in
the University of Missouri, brought suit against the said
university to recover salary, alleged by him to be due to
him. The case was thus:
In 1820 the United States made a grant of land for the
purpose of enabling the State of Missouri to establish and
suppoit an institution of learning. The title to the grant

