Oct. 1873.]

THE

WENONA.

41

Statement of the case.

In relation to the large amount of stores transported
there is no complaint. It is to be presumed that everything
in relation to them has been satisfactorily adjusted. This
claim is confined to stores not transported.
Although we concur entirely with the Court of Claims in
their view of the case, yet as the appellant acted in that
court upon a mistaken notion of his rights, the judgment
will be reversed and the cause remanded that he may have
another opportunity to produce the proof which he before
declined to give. If he shall again refuse, the petition must
CAUSE REMANDED.
be finally dismissed.

TaE

WNONA.

A steamer condemned for a collision with a sailing vessel, the wheelsman,
mate, captain, and other witnesses on the sailing vessel swearing positively to courses and distances and times immediately prior to the collision, and these showing that the steamer was in fault; while though
there was strong evidence on the steamer's side to show that these courses,
distances, and times could not have been truly stated by the witnesses in
behalf of the sailing vessel, this evidence was inferential chiefly; consisting of conclusions or arguments drawn from other facts sworn to, as
ex gr., the lights which the steamer saw and the lights which she did
not see on the sailing vessel ; and the effect of giving credence to this
inferential or argumentative testimony being to convict as of necessity
the witnesses for the sailing vessel of perjury.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court for the Northern District
of New York.
About nine o'clock in the evening of the 29th of November, 1869, heading east by north half north, the steam propeller Wenona was on her course down Lake Erie; her rate
about ten miles an hour. The evening was somewhat dark
and it was raining. There was a little mist on the water,
but not enough to make what is called a fog. The wind
was south, or south by east.
Going up the lake at the same hour, then, and for a half
hour before, heading southwest by west half west, was the

THaE

N-VN ONA.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

schooner Fremont; her rate five or six miles an hour, all
her canvas set, closehauled, though making some leeway.
Both vessels were well officered and had their proper
lights properly stationed..
The vessels as they approached saw each other. The
steamer saw that the vessel coming up was a sailing vessel,
and the schooner before long saw that the vessel coming
down was a steamer. The schooner kept on her course till
a certain moment, when she changed her course. The
steamer kept on her course till a certain moment, when she
changed hers also. A collision took place, and the schooner
with her cargo went to the bottom of the lake; her officers
and crew having barely time to escape with their lives.
Her owner hereupon libelled the steamer in the admiralty. The question in the case was a pure question of fact.
Did the steamer change her course, as she was bound by
the rules of navigation to do, in time to enable the schooner
safely to keep on hers? Did the schooner, when she changed
her course, change it because the vessels had got so near that
a collision seemed inevitable if she did not do so?
The question, of course, was to be decided by the evidence.
The LOOKOUT, on duty at the time, was examined; a man
who had been a sailor for fifteen years, eleven of them on
the ocean, and the rest upon the lake. lHe said:
"I was forward on the vessel. Our course was southwest by
west half west. I saw the propeller's light; at first a bright
light, right ahead. I reported it to the officer of the deck. He
answered, and said ' I see it.' A minute or two afterwards I saw
green and red lights; and I reported to the mate that there was
a steamer ahead. The mate lit the torch and made a flash
light. It was lit twice. It was a turpentine torch, and made a
flash for two or three seconds. I watched the lights on the
steamer; they appeared to me dead ahead, and seemed, if anything, to be gaining a little to the windward, until they opened
out to our port bow, which was our weather bow. I could then
see the red and bright light but not the green. The next thing
I could see was that her green light shut in for a short time;

Oct. 1873.]

ThE WENONA.
Statement of the case.

and I saw the red and bright light but not the green. Then
both green and red opened out brightly, and the vessel seemed
to be coming down on us; and to be not more than three times
her own length from us, perhaps not that. I called the men
below, to come on deck and to look out for themselves. In four
or five minutes from the time I saw the bright light as near as
might have been more or less-it could not
I can give it-it
have been many minutes more-the steamer struck us between
stem and cathead; at an angle of something more than fortyfive degrees. She was under way and came stem on."
The MATE, whose business for twenty-eight or twenty-nine
years had been sailing, said:
"The captain came on deck as the second torch was lit;
whether he or the cook lit it I can't say; one or the other. The
propeller was then pointed right to us.' The schooner's course
Ier course was southwest by west half
had not been changed.
west. I know that from the compass, and I am swearing from
what I know of the compass cdurse. She had been on that
course since a little aftcr eight o'clock. She kept on that course
till the time the captain came on deck. When the propeller
was standing right over us the captain gave order to the man
at the wheel to ' hard aport.'"
The WHEELSMAN, who had been for three years on the
ocean, for ten upon the lakes, and for the last-mentioned
terni in the habit of steering, said:
"After the lookout reported a light, I saw the light of the
propeller; a bright masthead light. Our course-southwest by
west half west-was taken before we saw that light. After I
saw the three lights the propeller put off suddenly to the windward three or four points or more. It took her five seconds to
go off to windward; I could not tell the time; it was sudden.
I first saw her dead ahead, and then to windward. She shot to
windward. When the vessels came together our course might
have been west by south half south. The captain sang out,
'Put the helm hard up,' and the change was made. The propeller was then off our port bow, heading about midships fbr
us, and our vessel was then perhaps half her own length friom
her. If I had not put the helm hard up, the propeller would

THE "WENONA.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.
have struck us at the fore-rigging. I put the helm bard aport.
No other change was made in the course of our vessel from the time
the white light was reported down to the collision.
"I saw the bright light about eight minutes before the collision. The propeller must have then been a mile and a half
from us. When I first saw her three lights I judge she might
have been a quarter of a mile from us. She got three or four
points off our port bow or moie. This was not many minutes
before the collision. It may have been two."
The MASTER, who was also the owner of the vessel, and
had been sailing on the lakes for twenty years, said:
"I was in my cabin reading a newspaper. I heard through
the windows the lookout report, 'Light ahead.' The mate said,
'Steady. Don't let her fall off.' The mate then said to me,
' Light this torch,' handing it to me. I dropped my paper and
lit it. In about a minute I heard another report in the cabin,
'It's a steamer; she is coming right for us.' The torchlight
would only burn two or three seconds. The mate asked me to
light the torch again. I said, ' I have no time; the cook will do
it.' I jumped on deck and got on the cabin top. I watched
the lights for a few seconds. When I first saw them they were
about halfa mile off, probably less. I watched till the lights got
pretty close to and the green light almost shut in. At this time
I could see the port side of the hull, a kind of glance of it. The
boat seemed to come in that style till within about four times
her length of us, and then she straightened up and came towards
us. I asked the man at the wheel how our vessel was heading.
He said she was on her course. The propeller seemed to starboard her wheel suddenly, when she was perhaps one hundred
feet or more from us. I then ordered our wheel hard aport,
hard up. The propeller struck us. The collision took place in
two or three minutes after I got on deck; I can't tell well about
the time. It was not more than five or six minutes after the
first report of ' Light ahead."'
The COOK, who was also steward, one Clements, gave his
account of what part of things fell under his observation, as
follows:
"At the time of the collision I was on deck. Before that I
had been below. I heard the lookout report light ahead. The

Oct. 1873.]

THE WENONA
Statement of the case.

mate answered, 'All right,' or something to that effect. Then I
heard the mate report to the captain that the light did not appear to alter its course. The mate was standing on deck lookin- down in the cabin. Then the captain got up and looked out
of the companion-way, and told the mate to light the torchlight. I got the matches to light the torch, and gave them to
the captain. He lit the torch. Then the mate swung it under
the leeside of the boom. Then, while he was swinging the
light I looked up the scuttle to see if I could see the propellerlight myself. I did see a bright light. It was right ahead;
might be half a point on the weather bow. Then I heard the
captain say, 'Light the torchlight again,' and I went to the
cabin and gave some matches again to the captain and he lit the
torch. The mate showed the torch lighted at the same place
as before. Then I went to look up through my scuttle again,
and I could make out the whole three lights of the propeller
bearing right down upon us. I could then just begin to see the
hull loom up. In hazy weather like that, I cannot give any
estimate of distance. I see the captain then jump atop of the
house and hail the propeller. He sung out two or three times,
but what words he said I cannot say. Then the vessels came
together."
There was no lack of testimony on the other side.
It tended to show, and some of it positively enough, that
the first light which the steamer saw on the schooner was
the torchlight, dead ahead, or, if anything, a quarter or half
point on her port bow; that this light was seen eighl or ten
m22inutes before the collision; that in a short time afterwards
the green light of the schooner was seen, dead ahead, or, if
anything, on the propeller's starboard bow; this, of course,
indicating that the schooner was passing to the starboard,
so that the vessels would pass starboard to strrboard"green to green ;" that the second torchlight was then seen,
and still the green light alone, opening on the propeller's
starboard bow, friom dead ahead to one or two points on
that bow. So that whatever might be thought about " leeway," there was still no danger, nor appearance of danger;
that after the green light had been thus opened until it was
about a point and a half or two points on the propeller's

46

THE WENONA.

[Sup. 40t

Argument for the schooner.

starboard bow the green light suddenly became invisible,
and the red one shot in sight a minute or two before the
collision, and appearing about one and a half or two points
off the propeller's starboard bow, appearing as soon as the
green one became invisible; that the schooner was estimated
by those on the propeller to be then from an eighth to a
half of a mile on the propeller's starboard bow; that they
conceived that this indicated that the schooner had changed
her course and was crossing the propeller's bow; that the
propeller then put her wheel hard astarboard, stopped and
backed her engine.
All this part of the case was made out by the statements
of witnesses who, as to exact times and distances, were in
opposition to the witnesses of the other side, and were in
certain particulars not absolutely consistent with each other.
So at least the District Court thought, and it tberefore
decreed for the libellants, condemning the Wenona for the
loss of the schooner and her cargo.
The Circuit Court, on a more favorable view of the evidence of the respondent, reversed that decree, and the owners of the schooner brought the case here to re-establish,-if
they could, the decree of the District Court.
There was no denial that the propeller was well officered,
with a good watch, &c., &c.; the chief allegation being that
they had wholly mistaken distances, and so committed fault.
Mr. J. Ganson,for the appellant:
The mate andwheelsman testify positively that the schooner
did keep her course until the propeller was coming on her,
and was only a short distance off, when her wheel was put
hard aport under the captain's order, to ease the anticipated blow. The respondent offers no evidence of a positive
character in opposition to this affirmative testimony. His
evidence conveys opinions rather than facts, in opposition to
the positive evidence on the part of the libellant. That kind
of evidence cannot weigh against positive proof.
The burden is on the propeller to show that it did everything in its power to keep out of the way of the schooner.

Oct. 1873.]

THE WEN0NA.
Argument for ,the schooner.

This it had a right to do, as it was in the open lake, by
either porting or starboarding its wheel, or by slackening
its speed, or by stopping and reversing its engine, if there
was risk of a collision. If a steamer makes the light of a
sailing vessel at a sufficient distance to avoid coming in contact with the vessel, and a collision ensues, prirn facie the
steamer is chargeable with fault, and the steamer must exculpate itself by clear and satisfictory evidence, or she will
be held liable.*
If the approach of the vessel is such "as to involve the
risk of a collision," and such risk is ascertained, then the
measures "to keep out of the way" are to be taken. If
doubt exists in the ease of a steamer as to the proper course
to be taken when nearing a sailing vessel, arising from difficulty in determining the. course of the sailing vessel, then
the steamer should "slacken her speed, or, if necessary,
stop and reverse."t
The evidence on the part of the libellant shows great
care, caution, and attention. The mate and captain of the
schooner, seeing that the propeller was steering directly for
the schooner, so as to involve risk of a collision, ordered a
torch lighted to attract the attention of the propeller and
warn it of the danger. The first light from the torch did
not apparently attract the attention of the propeller, for it
continued to bear for the schooner. A second flash-light
from the torch was made. The man at the wheel was
cautioned at the same time to keep the schooner steady
on her course. He testifies that he did so. This shows
that the persons in command of the schooner were on the
alert, and taking unusual pains to warn the propeller of the
danger.
There is not any dispute as to the fact that the propeller
starboarded its helm, but the libellant's and respondent's
witnesses differ considerably as to the then relative position
* The Carroll, 8 Wallace, 302, 304.

t 13 Stat. at Large, 61, art. 16; The Cleopatra, Swahey, 135; Lowndes
on Collisions, 27; Holt's Rule of the Road, 200, The Joseph Straker v. Tae
Karla.

TRE WBN0NA.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the steamer.

of the two vessels, and as to the distance there was then between them.
The libellant's witnesses testify that when the second
torchlight went out the vessels were very near each other.
It was at this time the libellant himself stepped on top of
the cabin. The vessels were then, as the libellant testifies,
from one-quarter to half a mile apart.
The respondent's testimony would go to show that the
propeller made the red light of the schooner after the second
torchlight went out, and that when it made the red light the
vessels were apart not less than a quarter of a mile, and that
some little time elapsed between the disappearance of the
second torchlight and the appearance of the red light of the
schooner.
It is evident that the distancebetween the two vessels
when the propeller put her helm hard astarboard and swung
to port was about as the libellant's witnesses state, and not
so great as that given by the respondent's witnesses.
It is obvious that there was haste in the manoauvre of the
propeller, and that before it was made the vessels were in a
dangerous proximity. The blame rests with the propeller
for getting the vessels into that position, and it must be held
liable.*
It is evident that the propeller's headway was not materially checked when the vessels collided, and that the propeller was going ahead.
So far as the decision of this court as an appellate tribunal
is concerned, it will, on the disputed evidence, give great
weight to the decision of the District judge, who had the
advantage of seeing the witnesses as they testified and could
form a good judgment of their probity and intelligence.
Mr. G. B. ffibbard, contra:

To commit a fault is to violate some statute, some rule,
some custom, and not merely to err.
* The Lucille, 15 Wallace, 676; Bentley v. Coyne, 4 Id. 512; The Carroll,
8 Id. 304; The Fairbanks, 9 Id. 420.

Oct. 1873.]

THE WENONA.
Argument for the steamer.

The propeller violated no law, rule, or custom. She conducted herself with ordinary care, skill, and judgment, under
the then circumstances, and with reference to appearances
which should then have guided her.
That she was well officered, that her watch was perfect,
her master, second mate, wheelsman, lookout, and engineer
at their places, is not denied. That they were each and all
competent is not questioned. That they saw the schooner
about one and a half or two miles off is shown. That they
continued vigilantly to watch the schooner, doing nothing
else from that time to the collision, each devoting himself to
the performance of his duty, is not to be doubted. Is it to
be determined that such abundantly competent men, properly placed, altogether vigilant, occupying places for the
proper exercise of judgment infinitely better than any other,
are in fault; and that the damages for such a loss as this
should fall upon the propeller, when fault, as will be shown,
was committed by the other vessel?
Seeing the green light dead ahead, as it is plain that the
propeller did see it, and no other light, what was the rule?
"Starboard the helm." Seeing the green light on the starboard bow, what again was the rule? "Starboard the
helm."*
The very doggerel states it:
" Green to green, or red to red,
Perfect safety. Go ahead."

Why, during the time that the green light continued to
be seen, should the propeller have done any more than continue to open it on her starboard bow ?
When the light of this schooner could: be and was seen
about two miles (the statutory distance at which they should
be visible) there was no fault to be found with the speed of
the propeller. There was every opportunity for avoiding a
collision necessary in such a case. When vessels are seen
* American Rule of the Road, 127, 228.
VOL. iii.

4

THE WENONA.

[Sup. Ot.

Argument for the steamer.

that distance apart the absence of a lookout even is not considered a fault.*
Without fault down to the time the green light continued
to be solely visible off the propeller's starboard bow, the
propeller cannot be in fault at all, unless she afterwards
committed it; and committed it when, having thus seen the
green light opening on her starboard bow, she had a right
to conclude that the vessels were going clear of each other.
The propeller had kept swinging steadily to port. She
did not put her wheel aport. Down to the period of the
propeller's progress so far considered not one indication of
danger. At this time, and when the green light had opened
until it was about one point and a half or two points on the
propeller's starboard bow, the green light suddenly became
invisible and the red was seen. Estimates of time and distance, in collision cases, are of course uncertain, but this red
light is estimated by those on board the propeller to have
been visible a minute or two before the collision. The red
light first appeared about one and a half or two points off
the propeller's starboard bow, appearing as soon as the green
light became invisible. The schooner was estimated by those
on the propeller to be then from an eighth to half a mile
off, on the propeller's starboard bow, and, as has been seen,
from one and a half to two points off the starboard bow.
The schooner was seen running in a direction to cross the
propeller's course, with her sails full, well before the wind.
When this red light was seen thus alone on the starboard
bow, it at once indicated that the schooner had changed her
course and was crossing the bows of the propeller. The
propeller was then swinging to port under her starboard
wheel. The schooner had suddenly changed her course, but
was still off the starboard of the propeller. What should
the propeller do in this sudden emergency, this sudden
change from safety to peril, produced by the fault of the
schooner? Precisely what she did do: put her wheel hard
astarboard, and, as was done, stop and back her engine.
The Maria MIartin, 12 Wallac

813,42; The Fannie, 11 Id. 238.

Oct. 1873.]

THE WENONA.
Restatement of the case in the opinion.

Should the propeller then have put her wheel aport, when
she was swinging to port at the time, when she would have
had to overcome that swing before her port wheel would be
felt?
Suppose the propeller, under the circumstances of sudden
peril produced by the fault of the schooner, then committed
an error (which she did not do), yet she was not responsible
under familiar rule.
The conduct of the propeller was faultless, upon authority. A steam vessel is required to take no precautions
when there is no apparent danger.*
The schooner was in fault; she caused the collision. The
proof given by the propeller as to the opening of the
schooner's green light, and the suddenly exhibited red,
shows that the wheelsman of the schooner must have changed
her course before her master gave the order to put her
wheel hard up. It may have been done without his knowledge. It may have been done without the knowledge of
any one except the wheelsman. It is true the wheelsman
asserts he did not do it, as is always the case in collision
causes. But both he and the captain, and others on the
schooner, swear to things absolutely, which could not have existed
had not this change taken place.
Mr. Justice CLIFFORD delivered the opinion of the court.
Sailing vessels, when approaching a steamer, are required
to keep their course, and steamers, under such circumstances, are required to keep out of the way. Vessels propelled by sails are required to keep their course on account
of the correlative duty imposed upon the steamer to keep
out of the way, in order that the steamer may know the
position of the object to be avoided and may not be led into
error in her endeavor to comply with the requirement.
Under the rule that the steamer must keep out of the way
she must of necessity determine for herself, independently
of the sailing vessel, whether it is safer to go to tle right or
The Potomac, 8 Wallace, 590; The Scotia, 14 Id. 170, 181.

THE "WENONA.

[Sup. Ct.

Restatement of the ease in the opinion.

to the left or to stop, and in order that she may not be deprived of the means or determining the matter wisely, and
that she may not be defeated or baffled in the attempt to
perform her duty in the emergency, it is required by the
rules of navigation thht the sailing vessel shall keep her
course and allow the steamer to pass either on the right or
left, or to adopt such measures of precaution as she may
deem best suited to enable her to perform her duty and fulfil the requirement of the law to keep out of the way. Rules
of navigation, such as have been mentioned, are obligatory
upon such vessels, when approaching each other, from the
time the necessity for precaution begins, and they continue
to be applicable as the vessels advance, so long as the means
and opportunity to avoid the danger remain. They do not
apply to a vessel required to keep her course after the approach is so near that the collision is inevitable, and are
equally inapplicable to vessels of every description while
they are yet so distant from each other that measures of precaution have not become necessary to avoid a collision.*
Injuries of a serious character were received by the
schooner Fr6mont, owned by the libellant, on the twentyninth of November, 1869, in a collision which occurred on
Lake Erie, about nine o'clock in the evening of that day,
between the schooner and the propeller Wenona, in consequence of which the schooner sunk in the middle of the
lake, and, with her cargo of salt, became a total loss. Damages were awarded to the libellant, as the owner of the
schooner, by the decree of the District Court, in the sum of
thirteen thousand nine hundred and seventy-nine dollars
and fifty-two cents, and costs of suit, from which decree the
respondents appealed to the Circuit Court, where the parties
were again heard, and the Circuit Court reversed the decree
of the District Court and entered a decree dismissing the
libel, holding that the collision occurred solely through the
fault of the schooner. Whereupon the libellant appealed to
this court.
* Mail Steamship Co. v. Rumball, 21 Howard, 384; 13 Stat. at Large,
60, 61

Oct. 1873.]

THE WENONA.
Opinion of the court.

Briefly stated, the facts of the case, as they appear to the
court here, were substantially as follows: Bound on a voyage from the port of Oswego to the port of Sandusky, tie
schooner, just before the collision, was proceeding up the
lake, heading southwest by west half west, and moving
about five or six miles an hour. On the other hand, it appears that the propeller was bound on a voyage from Chicago to Buffalo, and was proceeding down the lake ten miles
an hour, heading east by north half north. They were,
therefore, sailing in nearly opposite directions, there being
only a single point of variance, and the leeway which the
schooner was making, as appears by the evidence, made the
lines of their actual progress more nearly parallel. None of
these facts are much disputed, and it is quite certain that
the wind was south or south by east, and that the schooner,
though making some leeway, was nearly closebauled. It
was raining, and the night was somewhat dark, but the witnesses agree that there was no fog and not much mist on
the water. Both vessels were eaworthy and well manned,
and the evidence furnishes no reason to doubt that they both
had good and sufficient lookouts properly stationed. Both
vessels also showed signal lights, but it is insisted by the
respondents that the signal lights of the schooner were not
properly located on the vessel. Much discussion upon that
subject, however, is unnecessary, as it clearly appears that
the lights were burning brightly, and that they were seen by
the propeller in ample season to have enabled her to adopt
any and every proper precaution to have avoided a collision.
Two faults are ascribed to the schooner by the respondents, as follows: (1.) That she did not have good signal
lights properly displayed, as required by law. (2.) That she
changed her course, in violation of the fifteenth rule of
navigation for preventing collisions on the water.
1. Enough has already been remarked to show that the
first defence is not supported, without further discussion,
and it is accordingly overruled.
2. More difficulty arises in disposing of the second, as

TuE

WBNONA.

[Sup. Ot.

Opinion of the court.

there is considerable conflict in the testimony upon that
subject, which, doubtless, led to the difference of opinion
between the District and Circuit Courts. Where there is no
material conflict in the testimony of the witnesses, it is seldom difficult to decide such a controversy, as the rules of
navigation are very plain and may be readily applied without much danger of mistake.
Errors committed at the moment of collision are to be
regarded with less strictness than those committed when the
vessels are more distant from each other, as such an error is
often superinduced by an error of the other vessel committed at an earlier moment. In such a case much depends
upon time and distance, as all experience shows that measures of precaution, in order to be effectual, must be seasonable, and it is well-settled law that if they are not so and a
collision ensues in consequence of the delay, it is no valid
defence on the part of the delinquent vessel to aver that
nothing could be done at the moment to prevent the disaster.
Inability to prevent a collision usually exists at the time it
occurs, and in order to determine where the fault lies it
usually becomes necessary to examine with care the conduct
and orders of those in charge of the respective vessels from
the time the vessels came in sight of each other to the time
they came together, and such an examination frequently
discloses the fact that the cause of the collision is to be
found in some negligence or mismanagement of one or both
vessels when they were at some distance from the theatre
of the actual collision.* Difference of opinion as to the true
state of the facts doubtless led to the contrariety of decision
in the lower courts, and it is the same difference of opinion
between the parties which makes each claim with confidence
the favorable decision of this court. All agree that it was
the duty of the propeller to adopt the necessary precautions
to keep out of the way, and the respondents insist that they
complied with that requirement, but the libellant denies that
proposition and contends that they did not adopt any pre* The Merrimac, 14 Wallace, 203.

Oct. 1873.]

THE VENO0NA.
Opinion of the court.

cautionary measure fbr that purpose in season to render it
effectual. Perfect concurrence of views is also entertained
by the parties that it was the duty of the schooner to keep
her course, but the respondents contend that the schooner
violated that requirement, and that the charge made in argument against the propeller, that she did not adopt proper
and seasonable precautions, is not supported by the evidence. Evidently, therefore, the decision of the court must
turn upon the view taken of the evidence. Such being the
state of the case the court has looked carefully into the evidence and is of the opinion, after a deliberate consideration
of the same, that the theory of fact assumed by the libellant
is correct.
Proper signal lights were displayed by the schooner, and
in addition to that requirement it appears that the mate,
when the two vessels were a mile and a half apart, exhibited a torchlight. Report was first made to him by the
lookout that he, the lookout, saw a bright light ahead, but
presently he saw both a red and green light, and thereupon
reported to the mate that there was a steamer ahead, and
lie testifies that the mate immediately lighted the torch.
lie states that he watched the approaching lights and that
they appeared to be nearly ahead, gaining a little to the
windward, until they opened out. to our port bow," which
was their weather bow; and continuing the narrative he
says that the next thing that lie saw was the propeller seemed
to be coming down on to the schooner, when he called to
the men below to come on deck and look out for themselves.
ie went on duty at eight o'clock, and lie states that just
after that, the schooner was put upon a course of southwest
by west halt west, that she had been on that course a half
hour or more before the collision, and that she was kept on
that course to the time it was changed by the master, which
was after the master came on deck, just before the propeller
struck the schooner.* No one could have better means of
* As the Reporter read the record it was the mate, not the lookout, who
testified to this last fact (see supra, 43). This difference is, however, urimportant.-REP. -

TiE

VENONA.[

[Sup. Or.

Opinion of the court.

knowledge than the lookout enjoyed, as he was on the deckwhen the propeller was first discovered and continued there
until the collision occurred, and he testifies in the most positive terms that he knows what the compass course of the
schooner was, and that it was not changed before the order
was given by the master, as before stated, and that he heard
the order when it was given by the master to the wheelsman to make that change.
Equally positive testimony to the same effect is given by
the man at the wheel, who testifies that no change was made
in the helm of the schooner from the time she was put upon
the course of southwest by west half west until the master
sung out, put the helm up, when the schooner was not more
than half her length from the propeller, that the propeller
at that time was off the port bow of the schooner heading
about midships of the latter vessel; and he adds, with emphasis, that "no other change was made in the course of
our vessel from the time the white light was reported down
to the collision."
Until just prior to the collision the master was in the
cabin, which was on deck, but he heard the report of the
lookout to the mate that there was a light ahead, and heard
the order of the mate to the man at the wheel to keep the
vessel steady and not to let her fall off. He lighted the
first torch for the mate, but when he heard the lookout say
it is a steamer coming right towards the schooner, he, the
master, jumped on deck and got on the cabin roof, where
he could see the approaching lights about a half point on
the weather bow and probably one-fourth of a mile distant.
Inquiry was made by him of the man at the wheel how
the schooner was heading, and he replied that she was on her
course, and the master testifies that at one time as he stood
on the cabin watching the lights of the propeller he caught
a glance of the port side of her hull, and he states that she
seemed to advance in that way until she came within about
a hundred feet of the schooner, when she suddenly changed
her course, and that when he saw that change he gave the
order to the wheelsman to put the helm hard up. Such a

Oct. 1873.]

THE. WEN01NA.
Opinion of the court.

change cannot be regarded as a culpable act, as it is clear
that the collision was then inevitable, and it is highly probable that if it had not been given the destruction of the
schooner would have been so sudden as to have prevented
the master and crew from escaping from the wreck.
Olements, the cook and steward, was also examined, and
his testimony accords in all substantial respects with the
other witnesses called by the libellant.
Witnesses, it is true, were examined by the respondents,
whose accounts of the circumstances preceding the collision
differ in many respects from the statements made by the
witnesses of the libellant, but their testimony is not of a
character to warrant the court to impute wilful false-swearing to the witnesses who were on the deck of the schooner,
and the court is of the opinion that it is scarcely possible to
adopt the theory of the respondents without coming to the
conclusion that the libellant's witnesses have committed
wilful peijury.
Several theories are suggested which it is argued show
that it is highly improbable that the collision would have
occurred if the schooner had kept her course, as the libellant insists she did, but it is clear that the schooner was
sunk by a blow from the propeller, and in the opinion of
the court the evidence to show that the schooner did keep
her course until the collision was inevitable is too strong to
be overcome by any or all of the theories suggested in argument by the respondents. Most of the theories suggested
by the respondents as tending to show that the schooner
(lid not keep her course, as assumed by the libellant, are
based upon the estimates of time and distance made by the
witnesses who were on board the propeller, which, in the
judgment of the court, are far too liberal and quite unreliable; as, if admitted to their full extent, they would show
that the collision could not have occurred. Doubtless the
helm of the propeller was put to starboard when the first
lorchlight was displayed on the schooner, but it is highly
probable that the two vessels were much nearer together
than is supposed by the witnesses, as it is evident if they

58

KNOWLES v. GASLIGHT AND COKE COMPANY.

[Sup. Ct.

Syllabus.

were two miles apart at that time and much change was

made in her wheel, that the collision would have been
avoided unless a counterchange was made in the wheel before the distance between the two vessels was overcome.
Carefully examined, it will be seen that the testimony of
the respondents does not show that the schooner changed
her course but once after her signal-lights were first seen,
and that change is admitted by the witnesses of the libellant. But they differ widely in one respect from the respondent's witnesses, as the latter assume that the collision would
have been avoided if that change of course had not beerx
made, whereas the libellant's witnesses testify to the effect
that it was not made until the collision was inevitable, and
the court is of the opinion that the latter theory is satisfactorily proved. Inferences from circumstantial facts may
frequently amount to full proof of a given theory, and may
even be strong enough to overcome the force and effect of
direct testimony to the contrary, but the circumstances invoked in argument by the respondents in this case are not
sufficiently persuasive and convincing to justify the court in
adopting a conclusion directly opposed to the positive testimony of all the witnesses who were on the deck of the
schooner just before and at the time the disaster occurred.
Beyond doubt they must know what the circumstances were,
and the record furnishes no sufficient reason to warrant the
court in imputing to them wilful falsehood.
DECREE OF THE CIRCUIT COURT REVERSED)

and the cause

remanded with directions to
AFFIRM THE DECREE OF THE DISTRICT COURT.

KNOWLES v. THE GASLIGHT AND COKE COMPANY.

1. A return to a summons by the sheriff that he has served the defendant
personally therewith is sufficient, without stating that the service was
made in his county. This will be presumed.

