HODGES V.

VAUGHAN.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

such liability from ever arising. These special circumstances
under which the law of 1865 was passed bring it still more
clearly within the decision of Carrauv. The State of Arkansas.
The decree of the Supreme Court of South Carolina must
AFFiRMED.
be
Mr. Justice STRONG: I concur in the judgment given
in this case, but not in all the positions taken in the opinion
of the majority of the court. I cannot regard the eleventh
section of the act of the General Assembly of South Carolina,
passed December 21st, 1865, as amounting either to an assignment or a declaration of trust of the property of the
bank in favor of the holders of the Fire Loan bonds. In
my opinion it effected no transfer, either legal or equitable,
and vested no interest in the creditors. Hence the repeal
of the act by the legislature, in 1868, was no disturbance of
any vested rights, and it is not obnoxious to the objection
that it impaired the obligation of any contract. For this
reason, and for this reason alone, I think the judgment
should be affirmed.
Justices MILLER and DAVIS expressed their concurrence in what was said by Mr. Justice Strong.

HODGES V. VAUGHAN.
When the only defect in a transcript sent to this court is that the clerk has
not appended to it his certificate that it contains the full record (there
being no allegation of contumacy), a certiorariis not the proper remedy
for relief to the plaintiff in error. ie should ask leave to withdraw
the transcript to enable him to apply to the clerk of the court below to
append thereto the necessary certificate.

THis Ivas a motion made on behalf of the plaintiff in
error for a certiorari upon suggestion of a diminution of a
record coming on error from the Circuit Court for the

Oct. 1873.]

STOWE V. UNITED STATES.

Syllabus.

Eastern District of Arkansas. The diminution alloged was'
that the clerk of the court below had not appended to the
transcript his certificate that the transcript contained the
whole record.
Mr. Justice CLIFFORD delivered the opinion of the court.
A motion for certiorari is founded upon a suggestion of
diminution, and is designed to bring up some part of the
record left back and not included in the transcript. When
first presented, and without explanation, the court was inclined to grant the motion, but upon further consideration,
we are all of the opinion that it must be denied, as the writ
of certiorari is not a proper remedy for the alleged defect.
Nothing is omitted from the transcript which is a part of
the record in the court below. On the contrary, the only
complaint is that the clerk has not appended to the transcript his certificate that it contains the full record.

Such a

defect, in a case of contumacy, might be remedied by a
mandamus, but no application. of that sort is made nor is it
suggested that there are any grounds for such an applica-

tion. Under the circumstances the motion for certiorari is
denied, and leave is granted to the plaintiff in error to witbdraw the transcript to enable him to apply to the clerk of
the court below to append thereto the necessary certificate.

STOWE V. UNITED STATES.
Where a party gives to another a power of attorney, in blank, and defec" to collect and receive any and
tively witnessed, authorizing all moneys due to him" from the government under an agreement
specified, "and to make a good and sufficient release, acquittal or receipt for the same," and generally to do any and all things necessary in
the premises-this power being by statute 1 null and void" from the
defective execution-and the person to whom the power is thus given
fills the blank with the name of an attorney at law, and instructs him
to sue the government, and the attorney files a petition in the Court of
Claims in the name of the principal in the power, It t) the use and

