Oct. 1873.]

OSBORNE V.

UNITED STATES.

Statement of the case.

sequently adopted, prohibiting the enforcement of contracts
founded upon Confederate money, a Federal question would
have been presented. That provision, however, although
referred to, does not appear to have caused the ruling. The
court only followed its previous adjudications, that contracts
of the character mentioned were invalid.*
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

OSBORNE V. UNITED STATES.
1. A distiller's bond taken in pursuance of the act of July 20th, 1868, imposing taxes on distilled spirits, and which enacts "that a distiller shall on
filing with the assessor notice of an intention to commence business, make a bond
with sureties, to be approved by the assessor, and that no bond of a distiller
sall be approved unless he is the owner in fee, unincumbered, of the land on
which the distillery is, or unless he files with the assessor, in connection with
his notice, the written consent of the owner of the fee. and of any person having
a lien thereon, that the premises may be used for the purpose of distilling spirits,
subject to the provisions of law, and sWipulating that the lien of the United
States for taxes and penalties shall have priority of such incumbrance, and that
in case of the forfeiture of the distillery premises, the title of the same shall vest
in the United States, discharged from such incumbrance," is not void, even
as against sureties to the bond, because the ground was incumbered, and
because it being so the bond was approved without the consent of the
incumbrancers to postpone their liens; the bond not having been delivered as an escrow simply.
2. This is not altered by the fact that if the consent of the incumbrancers
had been got to postpone their liens, the ground on which the distillery
stood was of sufficient value to discharge the taxes due by the distiller
and so relieve the sureties from their personal obligations.

ERROR to the Circuit Court for the Eastern District of

Pennsylvania.
The United States brought suit in the court below against
Ann Osborne, administratrix of Joseph Osborne, deceased,
upon a distiller's bond, executed by Samuel McMillan as
principal, and by Robert Fletcher and the decedent, the said
Joseph Osborne, as sureties, in pursuance of the provisions
* West Tennessee Bank v. Citizens' Bank, 13 Wallace, 432; Bethell v.
Demaret, 10 1d. 637.
VOL. XIl

37

OSBORNE V.

UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

of the seventh section of the act of July 20th, 1868,* "Imposing taxes on distilled spirits, and for other purposes."
This section enacts:
"That every distiller shall, on filing his notice of intention to
continue or commence business, make and execute a bond in
form prescribed by the commissioner of internal revenue, with
at least two sureties, to be approved by the assessor of the district."
The eighth section of the act further enacts:
"That no bond of a distiller shall be approved unless be is
the owner in fee, unincumbered by any mortgage, judgment, or
other lien, of the lot or tract of land on which the distillery is
situated, or unless he files with the assessor, in connection with
his notice, the written consent of the owner of the fee and of
any mortgagee, judgment creditor, or other person having a lien
thereon, duly acknowledged, that the premises may be used for
the purpose of distilling spirits subject to the provisions of law,
and expressly stipulating that the lien of the United States for
taxes and penalties shall have priority of such mortgage, judgment, or other incumbrance, and that in case of the forfeiture
of the distillery premises or any part thereof, the title of the
,ame shall vest in the United States, discharged from any such
mortgage, judgment, or other incumbrance."
When the bond upon which this actiod was brought was
delivered to and approved by the assessor, the distillery
premises were incumbered by certain judgment liens, and
the bond was approved and McMillan permitted to commence and continue his business without their release or a
stipulation for their postponement. The distillery and the
ground on which it was would have been of sufficient value
to secure the claim now set up by the government (which
was for unpaid internal revenue taxes), if the claim for the
government taxes had had priority of the judgment liens;
but, postponed by them, it was insufficient. The defendant
pleaded these facts, but none others, in bar to a recovery
against her.
*

15 Stat. at Large, 127.

Oct. 1873.]

OSBORNE V.

UNITED STATES

Argument for the sureties.

To the plea thus made the United States demurred. The
court below sustained the demurrer, and gave judgment
upon the bond. To reverse this judgment this writ of error
was prosecuted.
-Mr. D. IV. Sellers, for the plaintiff in error:
All statutory bonds are executed with relation to the statutes under which they are given, and their obligation is the
same as it would be if the statute were inserted in them.
In the present case no bond could be approved by the assessor
until the lien of the United States for taxes should have
priority, and no distiller could lawfully commence to distil
until the assessor had approved the bond. Till then all was
in feri. An execution and a delivery of a bond which the
assessor could not lawfully approve until the distillery premises were subject to the lien of taxes before all other liens,
was accordingly the execution and delivery of nothing but
an escrow. The demurrer admits that the distillery and
ground whereon it was erected, was sufficient to secure the
debt due the United States. Whatever loss thereon has
occurred to the government has occurred, therefore, by the
assessor's neglect of his duty. He is the servant of the
United States. For loss accruing to the United States, he
has given bond. The surety has no action against him on
that bond, and he cannot compel the United States to subrotate.
This disregard of the law, by the assessor, was not of a
matter formal and directory, but substantial and mandatory.
The license of the assessor would not have justified the distiller, if he had been indicted for violating the law.
The provisions avoided by the assessor and distiller ought
to be enforced against the government in the collection of
the present tax, as those of a tax law were under circumstances very similar in principle in _rench v. Ediwards.*
We submit, therefore, that the court below erred in sustaining the demurrer to the plea.
* 13 Wallace, 506.

OSBORNE V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup.

t

Opinion of the court.

Mr. C. .H. Hill, Assistant Attorney-General, citing United
States v. Hodson,* and Dairv. United States,t contended, contra,
that the demurrer was rightly sustained.
The CHIEF JUSTICE delivered the opinion of the court.
The Circuit Court did not err in sustaining the demurrer
to the plea of the plaintiff in error. The object of the eighth
section of the act of Congress was to protect the government, not the sureties upon the bond. By that section the
assessor was not permitted to approve a distiller's bond
unless the distillery property was unincumbered as against
the United States. If he did he made himself liable to the
government for his default, but he violated no duty he owed
the sureties. He was under no obligation to protect the
signers of the bond. If the sureties insisted upon a release
of the incutmbrances as a condition to their becoming )ound,
they should have taken care to see that the bond was not
approved until all the requirements of the statute in favor
of the government had been complied with. The assessor
was in no respect called upon to act for them. If they failed
to secure all the indemnity they might have had it was their
fault, and not that of the United States. As to them certainly this section of the act is directory to the assessor and
not mandatory.
But it is directory also as to the United States. The assessor is a ministerial officer. He is directed not to approve
a distiller's bond until the distillery property is made free
from incumbrances as against the claims of the government.
He ought to insist upon this. If he fails to perform this
duty the government will lose a part of the security it was
entitled to have, but this will not prevent it front availing
itself of so much as it has obtained.
is not averred in the plea that the bond was delivered
- It
to the assessor as an escrow, to be approved and made binding upon the obligors only when the incumbrances were
released. It is not even averred that the assessor, when he
* 10 Wallace, 895.

t 16 Id. 1.

Oct. 1873.-]

PEETE V.

MORGAN.

Statement of the case.

approved the bond, had actual knowledge of the existence
of the alleged incumbrances. But the theory of the plea is
that the act of Congress made the United States a guarantor
to the surety that the distillery property was free from incumbrances at the time of the approval of the bond. In
our opinion such is not the law.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

PEETE V. MORGAN.
A State cannot, in order to defray the expenses of her quarantine regulations,
impose a tonnage tax on vessels owned in foreign ports, and entering
her harbors in pursuit of commerce.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court for the Eastern District of
Texas.
The Constitution ordains as follows:

"No State shall without the consent of Congress lay any
duty on tonnage.
"Congress shall have power to regulate coinmerce between
the States."
With these provisions of the Constitution in force, the
legislature of Texas, by an act of August 13th, 1870, enacted
that every vessel arriving at the quarantine station of any
town on the coast of Texas, should pay $5 for the first hundred tons, and one and a half cents for each additional ton.
In this state of things Morgan, a citizen of Nvew Yorkand the owner of two lines of steamers, registered and enrolled in that city, and running from ports in Louisiana to
ports in Texas, and back to the ports whence they sailed,filed a bill in the court below to enjoin onePeete,health officer
at the port of Galveston, fi'om the future collection of quarantine fees, exacted under the act abovementioned, from all
his vessels coming to the quarantine ground of the said port.
The enactment laying the tax was apparently passed on

