TiE Rio

GRANDE.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

THE

Rio

GRANDE.

1. Five libellants, on separate libels in rem, got a decree in the Circuit Court
of one circuit against a vessel for sums each one under $2000, and so
without right of appeal here, and costs. Before they could get satisfaction from the vessel, she was taken out to sea.
The vessel happening to be subsequently in another district the same five
libellants now sent and libelled her there; not filing five separate libels,
as in the former district, but all five persons joining in one libel, claiming for each the old sums, with interest from a day named, and claiming
in one sum, and without any specification of what portion of it was for
which libellant, the sum of $1767.62, costs of the courts of the first
district, "and also all costs in this behalf expended." The Circuit
Court decreed in favor of the libellants the amount claimed by each,
with 8 per cent. interest from a day named, to the date of the Circuit
Court's decree; and "the further sum of $1767.62 costs in the District
and Circuit Courts" of the former district, and all costs in the District
and Circuit Courts where the libels had last'been filed. With the
interest thus allowed the claims of two of the five libellants exceeded
the sum of $2000, but even with it added the claims of the remaining
three did not do so.
The owners of the vessel having taken an appeal to this court, a motion
"to dismiss the appeal," for want of jurisdiction, because "the matter
in dispute did not exceed the sum or value of $2000," was denied; the
ground for the denial assigned being that "the motion is to dirihiss the
appeal," and that the decree in favor of two of the libellants was greater
than $2000 when the interest allowed by the Circuit Court to the date
of its decree was included with the principal.
2. Great faith given to a certificate of a clerk below (in the face of things apparent on the transcript itself, and in face of the assertion by counsel
of one side and the admission by counsel of the other), that a record sent
here by him is a full, complete, true, and perfect transcript of the record
and proceedings in a court below.
3. On an allegation of deficiency in the record, the deficiency, if any, may
be supplied by certiorari. A motion to dismiss the appeal upon such
allegation denied.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court for the District of Louisiana; the case being thus:
The Judiciary Act as amended by an act of 1803 gives
appeals to this court from the Circuit Courts in admiralty
causes, "where the matter in dispute exceeds the sum or
value of $2000, exclusive of costs."

Oct. 1873.]

THE RIo GRANDE.
Statement of the case.

These provisions of law being ini force, the steamer Rio
Grande, owned, as was alleged, by persous in Mexico, being
in the port of Mfobile, in the Southern District of Alabama,
certain material-men, on the 26th of November, 1867, filed
separate libels against her in the District Court for the said
district. The libels, with their numbers and the names of
the libellants on the docket, were thus:
No. 221.
No. 222.
No. 223.
No. 224.
No. 225.

William Otis, for.
Joseph Hastings,
..
R. D. Post & Co.,
Lyons & Keyland,
G.B.& 0. B. Gwin & Co.,

..

$I,508 00
83 75
12.500
1,411 83
71300

Upon process issued on these libels the vessel was seized
by the marshal and held by him during the pendency of
the proceedings in the said court.
Several other libels had apparently been filed against the
same steamer. The record at least contained this entry,
which, as it is referred to in what is said by the learned justice who delivered the opinion of this court, and apparently
as affecting the case, is here set out:
Order granting .Motion to consolidate Causes.
"Tuesday Morning, December 10th, 1867.

"Court metpursuant to adjournment. Present: the honorable
Richard Busteed, judge presiding.
JOSEPH HASTINGS ET AL. v. STEAMBOAT RIo GEANDE.

"In this cause G. N. Stewart, Esquire, attorney for the claimants, moves the consideration of admiralty cases Nos. 127, 128,
129, 130,131,132,133, 134, 135, 136, 137, and 138, with the abovementioned case; which motion was granted by the court upon
a written agreement being filed that such consolidation should
not prejudice the officers of the court in respect to costs."
One Williams and others appeared as claimants and owners of the vessel.
On the 11th of May, 1868, the court dismissed all the
libels, on the ground that the credit had been a personal
one to the owners, and that there had been no credit to the

THE

RiO

GRANDE.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

ship. Hereupon the claimants, on the 12th, and before it
was possible to perfect an appeal, got-through some clerical
accident apparently-an order of restoration of the vessel to
themselves, and carried her right out to sea. The libellants,
nevertheless, on the 14th, 15th, and 16th of May took their
appeal with supersedeas to the Circuit Court, the Circuit
Court, of course, for the District of Alabama; and on the
appeal that court, holding that the credit had been to the
vessel, reversed, January 11th, 1869, the decree of the District Court, and awarded to each of the libellants abovenamed the amount claimed by him, with interest at 8 per
cent. from the 1st of August, 1867. The order of decree,
after setting out the numbers of the cases and the names of
the libellants, proceeded thus:
"The above-stated eases having been appealed to this court
from the District Court of the United States for the Southern
District of Alabama, came on to be heard this day, upon the

libels, answers, and proofs; and, it appearing to the court that
each of said claims are liens upon said steamer Rio Grande, an(
it further appearing to the court from the evidence"That the claim of William Otis is sustained, $1508, with interest on the same from the 1st (lay of August, 1867;
"And the claim of Lyons & Keyland is sustained, for the sum
of $1411.83, with interest on the same from the Ist day of Algust, 1867;
"And the claim of Joseph Hastings, for the sum of $83.75,
with interest from the 1st day of August, 1867;
"And the claim of ii. D. Post, for the sum of $121.75, with interest from the 1st day of August, 1867;
"And the claim or G. B. & C. B. Gwin & Co., for the sum of
$713.14, with interest from the 1st day of August, 1867;
"It is therefore ordered and decreed that the said steamer
Rio Grande be condemned for the payment of said respective
sums, ascertained and admitted to be due to the respective libellants, and that she be sold to pay*the same, and the costs of this
court and of the District Court."
Subsequently to all this the material-men, from whose process in the judicial District of Alabama the vessel had been
withdrawn, hearing that she was now in the port of New

Oct. 1873.]

THE Rio GRANDE.
Statement of the case.

Orleans, in the District of Louisiana, sent over there and, on
the 8th of June, 1871, there libelled her.
In this new libel they all joined in one libel. This libel
set forth that the steamer was indebted to them severally in
the sums already named, with interest, at the rate of 8 per
cent. per annum, from the 1st of August, 1867, until paid,
that they had libelled her in the District of Alabama, and
had got a decree of the Circuit Court, such as has been
already stated, and decreeing that the vessel should be sold
to pay their claims, "1and the costs of both District and Circuit
Courts aforesaid;" that after the decree of the District Court
the claimants had removed the vessel from the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court for the District of Alabama, and
brought her into the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court for
the District of Louisiana, where the same material-men now
libelled her. The libel reasserted the old liens for materials, asserted further a lieu for $1767.62 for said costs, and
prayed that the steamer " be sold to satisfy the claims of the
libellants in the sum of $1767.62, costs of the courts of
Alabama, with also all costs in this behalf expended." After
referring to the proceedings in the District and Circuit Court,
it added:
"All which will more fully appear by the transcript of the
record of said case, which is filed herewith and made part of this
libel."
The District Court for Louisiana (Mr. Justice Durell),
like the District Court in Alabama, dismissed the libel.
The Circuit Court of Louisiana on appeal, like the Circuit
Court for Alabama, reversed the decree of the District Court,
and the claimants of the vessel took this appeal.
The transcript of the record, as it came to this court, was
composed of what was called in the index the "original
record" (103 pages), and an "additional record" by way of
continuation, and running from page 103 to page 188.
At the conclusion of the former, on page 103, and just
above a certificate of the clerk of the Circuit Court of Louisiana, appeared--

THiE Rio GRANDE.

[Sup. Ut.

Statement of the case.

Instructions from F. .Michinard,Esq., to make transcript.
[Filed September lltb, 1873.]
WILLIAM OTIS ET AL. v.

S. S. Rio GRAND E.-NO. 6819.

In making out the transcript of appeal in the above ease, the
clerk will please omit the following documents.
In the case proper:
All appeal-bonds filed in Judge Durell's court.
Notices to take testimony and continuances.

In the transcriptfiled with the libel:
Omit all libels except those of William Otis (1), Lyons & Keyland (2),
R. D. Post & Co. (3), and G. B. & C. B. Gwin & Co. (4).
State that the original libel of Joseph Hastings is for $183.75, for 261
days' labor, @ $7.
Omit bills attached to libels.
Omit all admiralty warrants and returns, monitions, &c., except in the
case of William Otis.
Omit motion for subpcna duces tecum.
Omit orders allowing master further time, and leave to counsel to file
briefs.
Very respectfully,
Omit appeal-bonds.

F.

MICHINARD,

For Rio Grande.

These instructions had been apparently more or less fully
complied with. Moreover, the " original record " did not
contain any transcript of a record of the proceedings in the
Circuit and District Courts of Alabama, the record, namely,
which the libel in the District Court of Louisianareferred to
as appended to it, but it did contain, and following the libel,
what it called "-Extracts from the transcript annexed to libel
and filed in the United States District Court, June 8th,
1871."
Nevertheless, the clerk of the Circuit Court for Louisiana
put, under date of 26th September, 1873, and at the close
of the "original record," the usual certificate that the 103
pages named contained and formed a "full, complete, true,
and perfect transcript of the record and proceedings had,
together with all the evidence adduced on the trial of the
case of William Otis et al. v. The Steamer Rio Grande, No. 6819
of the docket, so far as the same now remain of record."

Oct. 1873.]

THE

Rio

GRANDE.

Argument against the jurisdiction.

Then followed in the transcript sent here the "addition
to the record." This opened with an agreement signed by
the counsel of both sides, and dated November 27th, 1873,
thus:
"It is agreed that the appellants may make perfect and complete the transcript in this case, by having the following documents, forming part of the record of the Circuit Court, copied
by the clerk and filed in the Supreme Court, before the trial of
the motion to dismiss, to wit."
[Here followed a list of documents, some, but not all of those
which the clerk had omitted.]
Then came what were entitled"Extracts from the transcript filed with libel in the United
States District Court, District of Louisiana, June 8th, 1871, and
in the Circuit Court of the United States, November 2d, 1872."
This part of the transcript, that is to say, the "addition to
the record," the clerk of the Circuit Court for Louisiana
did not certify as before to be a "full, complete, true, and
per'ect copy" of anything; but on the contrary, under
date of December 6th, 1873, certified to contain "true and
perfect copies extracts from the transcript of the record and
proceedings had in the suits in Southern District of Alabama,
and filed in the case of William Otis et al. v. The Steamship Rio
Grande, No. 6819 of the docket, so far as the same now remain of record, or on file in said court."
A motion was now made to dismiss the appeal, because,
1st. The transcript did not contain a true copy of the
record and of all the proceedings in the case.
2d. This court had no jurisdiction in the, case, as the
amount in dispute was less than $2000.
Mr. Semmes, in support of the motion to dismiss:
1st. The eighth rule of court requires that the clerk of
the lower court shall make and transmit a true copy of the
record and of all proceedings in the cause; this has not
been done in the present case, but on the contrary, portions
of the record, important to show the character of the seizure

THE Rio GRANDE.

[,Sup. Ct.

Argument against the jurisdiction.

and condemnation of the Rio Grande in the several suits of
the libellants, have by order of the claimants' proctor been
excluded from the transcript.
2d. The decree of the Circuit Court for the District of
Alabama was a separate decree for different sums of money,
due to the different libellants as material-men against the
vessel. None of these amounts, with the interest allowed,
amounted at the time of the decree rendered to the sum of
$2000, and unless the decree be for more than $2000 in favor
of each libellant an appeal cannot lie, even though the aggregate amount exceeds that sum.
And where joint libels in rem are filed for wages of seamen
and for supplies, which make a lien on a vessel, the claims
for wages and supplies do not become joint, but the decree
rendered in favor of each libellant for the sum due him is
a several decree, and cannot be appealed from by either
libellant or claimant, unless the amount in dispute on each
claim exceeds $2000, which amount in dispute as regards
the claimant is shown by the decree rendered in fivor of
the libellant. This is settled in Bich v. Lambert,* and in
Oliver v. Alexander.t
The separate character of the claims of the libellants was
not changed or altered by their attempt to enforce the decree of the District Court of Alabama in the Admiralty
Court of Louisiana by a joint libel. The sole purpose of
the proceedings in Louisiana was to enforce the decree made
in Alabama, and the proceedings in Louisiana are merely in
the nature of an execution against the vessel. If the vessel
or its claimants could not appeal from the decree of the Circuit Court in Alabama, no appeal from proceedings to execute that decree will lie from the decree of the Circuit Court
in Louisiana, although the vessel may have been removed
from one jurisdiction to another, or have changed owners.
The removal or change of ownership cannot affect the jurisdiction of the court.
But if the amount claimed in the libel in Louisiana is to
*12 Howard, 347.

t 6 Peters, 143.

Oct. 1873.]

THE

'Rio

GRANDE.

Argument in favor of the jurisdiction.

govern the appellate jurisdiction, then the claim of William
Otis alone, under that ruling, will be subject to appeal, all
the others being for sums below the jurisdiction of the
Supreme Court.
31r. D. C. Labalt, contra, for the appellants:
1. The clerk of the Circuit Court has omitted many important documents which he was not instructed to omit, but
the agreement of the counsel about perfecting and completing the transcript, estops from asking a dismissal on that
ground. It has been abandoned by the agreement.
2. This appeal is from the Circuit Court for Louisiana,
not from the Circuit Court for Alabama; and the decree
appealed from was made March 3d, 1871. Now, as Otis
claimed $1508, and as Lyons & Keyland claimed $1411.88,
and as the decree appealed from, made, as just said, March
3d, 1871, .allows them those sums, with interest at 8 p. c. fr'om
the 1st day of August, 1867, that is to say, for five years,
seven months, and three days, computation will show that,
as respects each of those two libeilauts at least, the matter
in controversy does exceed $2000.* On such a case, no motion "to dismiss the appeal," that is, to dismiss it in tolo,
can be granted. The most that could be. asked fbr would
be some action in regard to the minor claimants.
But none can be asked for in regard to them. There was
but one libel filed in the District Court for Louisiana, and
that was a joint libel. That joint proceeding was quite
unlike the separate proceedings in the District Court for
Alabama.
In Alabama the libellants were seeking to enforce their
several claims against the Rio Grande for supplies; in Louisiana they sought to enforce the execution of a decree
which awarded to them not only the amounts originally
claimed by them, but also a sum of $1767.62 tbr costs. And
m their libel in Louisiana the libellants asked that the
steamer be "sold to satisfy the claims of your libellats,
* The Patapsco, 12 Wallace, 461.

THE

Rio

[Sup. Ot.

GRANDE.

Argument in favor of the jurisdiction.

with the sum of $1767.62, costs of the courts of Alabama, with
also all costs in this behalf expended." And the decree did
award to the libellants the amount thus claimed by them.
The costs thus awarded are not embraced within the ex.
ception of the law (" except costs") in computing the amount
in dispute. The only costs that are not to be included in
the computation are the costs in the proceedings actually
carried on in the courts in Louisiana, to secure an adjudication of the rights of the libellants.*
Now, touching the amount of these former costs the libellants were joint suitors, not joint and several; they claimed
that sum conjointly, and it was thus awarded to them by the
decree appealed from. What portion of this sum of $1767
is coming to Otis, or what to Hastings, or what to any of
the libellants, the decree does not determine. The sum constitutes a commonfund to be distributed among the libellants,
and, quoad that amount, brings the case strictly within the
rule laid down in Shields v. Thomas,t a case in which the
cases of Rich v. Lambert and Oliver v. Alexander, cited by the
opposing counsel, are reviewed, and in which the distinction
which we contend for is recognized.
Now, if such be-the case, the appellant cannot be protected
against execution for this whole sum of $1767, unless the
appeal is maintained against all the libellants. Suppose the
appeal to be dismissed as to Hastings, Hastings can issue his
execution for the amount awarded to him and the $1767.
Opposing counsel will agree to this. And this shows that
the libellants are joint libellants to enforce the execution of
"a decree" in their favor; and not joint and several libellants
for the sums claimed. Indeed, having filed their libel in
the form in which they have consented to do, they could
not be heard to say that they were joint and several libellants
for a part of their claim and joint libellants only for another
part.
In so far as the appellant is concerned, it is a matter of
indifference how the whole amount claimed is distributed.
* Lee v. Watson, 1 Wallace, 337.

t 17 Howard, 3.

Oct. 1373.-]

THE Rio GRANDE.
Restatement of the case in the opinion.

That is a matter to be settled between the material-men
(the appellees) themselves. At present, in tle libel in Louisiana, the decree on which alone it is that there is an appeal,
they claim jointly. And, so claiming, it is unimportant that
the claims of particular claimants are less than $2000, the
claim of all exceeding that suim.
Mr. Justice CLIFFORD delivered the opinion of the court.
Separate libels were filed by the appellees, in the District
Court of the United States for the Southern District or Alabama, against the steamboat Rio Grande, to enforce the
payment of certain claims made by those parties against the
steamboat for materials furnished fbr repairs and for necessary supplies, which it is alleged constituted a maritime lien
upon the steamboat. Process was issued and served and
the parties appeared and were heard, and the decree states
that the court ordered, adjudged, and decreed that the claims
contained in the libels in this cause do not constitute such a
maritime lien as to give the court jurisdiction, and the court
entered a decree that the libel ill each case be dismissed
with costs. Immediate application was made to the court
by the claimants for an order that the possession of the steamboat should be delivered to them by the marshal, and the
record shows that on the twelfth of May, 1868, the motion
was granted. Notice of appeal was immediately given by
the libellants, and two days after the order was passed delivering the steamboat to the trustees named in the application
for the order, the appeal bonds were filed. During the pendency of the several libels in the District Court and before
the final decree, to wit, on the tenth of December, 1867, tile
causes were consolidated by the court upon a written agreemeat being filed that tile consolidation should not prejudice
the officers of the court in respect to costs.
On the eighth of June, 1871, the same niaterial-men filed
a libel in the District Court of the United States for the District of Loui-iana, against the same steamboat, to enforce
the maritime lien for the same claims, in which they alleged
that during the pendency of the said admiralty proceedings

THE Rio

GRANDE.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

in the District Court for the Southern District of Alabama,
the court there ordered the marshal to deliver the possession
of the same, as in the order previously described, and that
the order was executed as made, notwithstanding the libelhints appealed and gave appeal bonds operating as a supersedeas within the period allowed by law for perfecting such
appeals. Process was issued and served and the appellants.
appeared as claimants and filed an answer. Testimony was
taken, and the parties having been heard, the court entered
a decree dismissing the libel, and the libellants appealed to
the Circuit Court, where the parties were again heard, and
the Circuit Court reversed the decree of the District Court
and entered a decree that the libellants do have and recover
from the steamboat the following sums, to wit: William
Otis, $1508; Lyons & Keyhuid, $1411.83; Joseph Hastings,
$88.75; R. D. Port & Co., 121.25; G. B. & C. B. Gwin &
Co., $713.14, with eight per cent. interest on said diterent
amounts, from the first of August, 1867, until paid, and
costs of suit as therein specified. By the record it appears
that the decree was entered on the first day of March, 1873,
and of course five years and seven months' interest must be
added to each of the several sums awarded in the decree.
Whereupon the respondents appealed to this court.
Two grounds for dismissing the appeal are set forth in the
motion under consideration:
1st. That the transcript does not contain a true copy of
the record and of all the proceedings in the case, under the
hand and seal of the Circuit Court.
2d. That this court has no jurisdiction in the case, as the
amount in dispute is less than $2000.
1. Probably the stipulation filed in the case allowing the
appellants to complete and perfect the transcript in the case
may be regarded as an answer to the first ground of the
motion, but if not it is quite clear that the certificate of the
clerk of the court must be regarded as prime facie evidence
that the matter of fact alleged in the motion is not well
founded. Deficiencies, if any, may be supplied by certiorari.

Oct. 1873.]

ELDRED V. SEXTON.

Syllabus.

2. Nor can the motion be sustained for the other reason
set forth, as it is certain that the decree against the appellants here in favor of two of the respective appellees exceeds
the sum of $2000. True, the sums recovered by the other
three appellees respectively were not sufficient to 'give this
court jurisdiction, but the motion is to dismiss the appeal,
which must be denied, as the decree in fa~vor of the two
libellants first named in the decree is, as it respects each of
those, greater than $2000, when the interest allowed by the
Circuit Court to the date of the decree is included with the
principal.* Interest to that date being specifically allowed
by the decree must be included with the principal in order
to determine what "the sum or value in dispute was" at
the time the appeal was taken and allowed.
MOTION DENIED.

ELDRED V. SEXTON.
The fundamental principle established by the act of Congress of April 24th,
1820, and since governing the matter of sales of the public lands, that
private entries are not permitted until after the lands have been exposed to public auction at the price for which they are afterwards sold,
held to be applicable to a case-that of the grant by Congress, June 3d,
1856, of alternate sections designated by odd numbers, to the State of
Wisconsin for the aid of the Chicago and Northwestern Railway.
There, after the line of the railroad was located and the price of sections
within six miles designated by even numbers, doubled, that is to say
fixed at $2 50 per acre, and after these were offered at public sale at tlun
price and remained unsold, so that thenceforth they became open to
private entry at $2.50, but not at less, the line of the road was changed
by joint resolution of Congress, leaving outside of the six mile limits
certain of these even sections; the joint resolution providing that the
even sections of public lands "rese-rved to the United States by the act
of June 3d, 1856 (the original grant), along the originally located route
ot railroad, and along which 2o railroadhas been constacled, shall here.
after be sold at $1.25 per acre."
* The Patapsco, 12 Wallace, 451.

