HEAD

V.

THE UNIVERSITY.

[Sup. Ot.

Statement of the case.

the period of this controversy, which is set out at length in
the brief of counsel, operated as an injunction upon the
proceedings of the marshal, and that, therefore, the sale of
the plantation was unauthorized. The answer to this position is that, in the state of the pleadings and evidence, we
are not at liberty to pass upon the legality of this order, or
to determine what effect should be given to it if properly
issued. It is not in the record at all, and for aught that appears, was never brought to the notice of either of the courts
in Louisiana engaged in the decision of the case.
It may be that the courts of the country would take judicial notice that Louisiana, at the time mentioned, was in the
military occupation of our forces, under General Banks, but
we know of no rule of law or practice requiring this, or
any other court, to take notice of the various orders issued
by a military commander in the exercise of the authority
conferred upon.im.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

HEAD V. THE UNIVERSITY.
*Where in a university of learning, belonging to the State, and which the
State was in the habit of governing through curators appointed by
itself (such as the University of Missouri), a person was appointed by
the curators a professor and librarian, for six years from the date of his
b c
appointment, "su je t to law." held that the legislature could vacate his
office, appoint new curators, and without fault on the part of the professor assigned, order a new election of a professor to the same professorship, and of a librarian, before the expiration of the six years.

ERROR to the Supreme Court of Missouri.
Head, late professor of mathematics and also librarian in
the University of Missouri, brought suit against the said
university to recover salary, alleged by him to be due to
him. The case was thus:
In 1820 the United States made a grant of land for the
purpose of enabling the State of Missouri to establish and
suppoit an institution of learning. The title to the grant

Oct. 1873.]

HEAD

v. THE

UNIVERSITY.

Statement of the case.

was vested in the legislature of the State to be by !tapplied
solely to the use of a seminary of learning. The legislature
complied with the cohditions of the act of Congress making
the donation and established the University of the State of
Missouri.
The university was supported from the interest on its endowment fund, and from the tuition fees of its patrons, and
from appropriations of the State legislature. The citizens
of Boone County, and a college there previously established,
made a contribution of money and property, to induce the
legislature to fix the university in Boone County, and it was
fixed there accordingly. None of its funds were derived
from private citizens or other corporations as stockholders.
There were no dividends made. The management of its
funds was intrusted to the board of curators, or directly controlled by the legislature. The State owned the entire university, and had always exercised the absolute control over
it ever since its incorporation. The legislature elected the
board of curators, and increased or diminished the number
at will. Thus, by an act of March 3d, 1845, the number
was twenty, which was changed by an act of the 10th of
March, 1849, to eighteen. By an act of 1845, the governor,
the secretary of state, the auditor of public accounts, the
State treasurer, and the president of the university were
made curators by virtue of their respective offices. By an
act of 1849, that portion of the law of 1845 was so changed
as to make the entire board elective by the State legislature.
By an act of the 4th of December, 1855, the entire board of
curators was removed and a new one elected, and the length
of time they should serve fixed. The chairs of the president
Mid of all the professors and tutors were vacated by the act
fiom the 4th of July, 1856; and the act directed elections
to be held in order to fill the offices thus made vacant, and
empowered the curators to fix the term of the president and
professors, not to exceed six years for any one term, with
authonty to remove any one of them from office "for incompetency, wilful neglect, or refusal to discharge the duties of his office, and for no other cause."'

HEAD v.

THE

UNIVERSITY.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

But no such removal was to be made until the accused
should "have had ten days' written notice of the proposed
cause of removal, and reasonable time to answer the same,
before the board, by the introduction of testimony or otherwise."
In this state of things, on the 10th of July, 1856, by resolution of the board of curators, certain professorships were
established. Mr. W. W. Hudson was elected president, and
Mr. Bolivar Head elected professor of mathematics and
librarian in the said university, other professors being elected
at the same time. The salaries of the president and different
newly elected professors were fixed by resolution, and these
further resolutions passed:
"1Resolved,That the secretary be required to inform Messrs.
Hudson, Head (and others), of their election to office, and request their acceptance.
"1Resolved,That the president and professors just elected shall
hold office for six years, from 5th July, 1856, subject to law."
On the same 10th day of July, 1856, the secretary of the
board of curators informed Mr. Head in writing of his election to the professorship of mathematics, at the salary and
for the term of six years, abovementioned, and requested
his acceptance. On the same day Mr. Head replied to the
secretary, and in writing accepted the appointment tendered.
He entered immediately after upon the discharge of his
duties, and continued to perform the same from that time
to July 5th, 1860.
In this further state of things the legislature of 1859
passed, on the 17th of December, another act vacating, from
the 4th day of July, 1860, the offices of all the professors,
tutors, and teachers connected in any manner with the university, and providing also that a new board of curators
should be elected in the place of the existing board, and
that elections should be had to fill the offices by the act
made vacant.
This new board being elected, notice was sent to Mr.
Head from them that his office having been vacated by the

Oct. 1873.]

HEAD V.

THE UNIVERSITY.

Argument for the professor.

legislature it became their duty to fill the same, and that
they would accordingly do so at a meeting which they would
hold on 15th May, 1860. At their meeting, the curators
accordingly elected a professor of mathematics in place of
M[r. Head, for four years from July 5th, 1860, and on the
2d of October, 1860, publicly installed the new professor in
place of Mr. Head, and delivered to him possession of the
rooms and apparatus belonging to said professorship. Onl
2d October, 1860, they appointed another person librarian,
and gave him possession of the library.
Head hereupon brought this suit in one of the Circuit
Courts of the State of Missouri; alleging that his amotion
from his offices without any trial or hearing, as provided
in the act of 1855, was illegal in form and spirit as well
as tyrannical and oppressive in fact; and claiming salary
for both the offices to which he had been elected from
the time when he was displaced to the end of the six years
for which he had been elected. That court held that the
university was a public corporation, and therefore subject to
the unrestrained control of the State legislature; that the
resolution of the curators, of 10th July, 1856, that the president and professors then elected should hold their offices
"for six years from the 5th of July, 1856, subject to law,"
meant subject to whatever law the State legislature might
think fit to pass, as there was no body that could enact laws
except the legislature of the State; that the relation between
the university and the plaintiff did not result from any contract between the parties, bhut from the law establishing the
university, creating the professorships and providing for the
manner of filling them.
Judgment being given accordingly, against the plaintiff,
and that judgment being affirmed in the Supreme Court of
the State, he brought the case here.
Mr. Read, proprid persona, iterating the argument below,
made the following points: That although the university
may be a public corporation, the professors therein are not
public officers; that they are mere servants for hire, with
VOL. x=x.

34

.HEAD v.

TE

UNIVERSITI.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

whom contracts for service may be made, and which are
binding upon the corporation; that they have a vested right
and legal property in their salaries and offices, of which they
can be divested only by legal proceedings; that a contract
for such service, at a fixed salary, and for a stipulated period,
is as much within the purview of the constitutional provision which prohibits the violation of contracts by the passage of a law, as if made between individuals, subject to the
legislative power to abolish the office.
No opposing counsel.
-Mr.Justice HUNT delivered the opinion of the court.
We are of the opinion that the questions raised by the
plaintiff in error are not presented by the facts of the case
before us.
The plaintiff was elected a professor of mathematics in
the University of Missouri, and it was resolved that he
should hold his office for six years from July 5th, 1856,
"subject to law." The judge at the circuit held, and we
think correctly, that this expression meant subject to whatever law the State legislature might think fit to pass.
On the 17th of December, 1859, the legislature did pass
an act, vacating the offices of all "the professors, tutors,
and teachers connected in any manner with the university,"
and providing also that a new board of curators should be
elected in the place of the existing board. It was by the
authority of this statute that the board of curators elected a
successor to the plaintiff, and placed him in the possession
of the professorship. The plaintiff accepted his office subject to the laws then in existence, and subject to the passage
of such subsequent laws as should seem wise to the legislature. If it had not been intended to place the control of his
office at the disposition of the legislature, the words "subject to law " would have been quite unnecessary in the reso.
lution. That he and his office and contract were subject to
the laws in existence at the time of makivg it, was sufficiently evident without any declaration on the point. All

Oct. 1873.]

INSURANCE COMPANY V. SEAVER.

Syllabus.

persons and all contracts are in that condition. But that he
would be subject to future legislative action, to the extent
of qn immediate removal and without cause, was not so evident. It was to make that point clear, and for no other possible purpose, that his employment for six years from July
5th, 1856, was declared to be "subject to law."
If further evidence to this effect is needed, it is found in
the manner in which the plaintiff received his appointment
in 1856. It was by virtue of a statute of 1855, which declared that the offices of the president, professors, and tutors
of the university should be vacant on the 4th day of July,
1856, and enacted that elections should be held to fill the
offices thus made vacant. The legislature, by its own unquestioned authority, made a vacancy in the office of professor of mathematics. The vacancy thus created by law was
filled by the election of the plaintiff. When it was, at the
same time, declared, that this position should be held by
him for six years, "subject to law," it cannot be doubted
that he understood it to be a part of the contract that the
legislature could, at their discretion and in their pleasure,
bring it to an earlier end.
Without discussing other questions, for the reasons thus
given, the judgment must be
AFFIRMED.

Tlissentin g, Mr. Justice BRADLEY.

INSURANCE COMPANY v. SEAVER.
I

Where two persons were driving sulkies in competition alongside of each
other at a horse-race for money,-which sort of race was made illegal
by statute,-and on a collision ensuing, one jumped to the ground from
his sulky, and was clear from the sulky, harness, and reins, on his feet
and uninjured, and instantly spoke to his horse to stop, and then started
forward to get hold of the reins, which were hanging across the axletree; and when ahold of, or attempting to get hold of them, was killed
by getting tangled in them, falling down and being dragged against a

