640

INSURANCE

COMPANY

v.

FOGARTY.

[sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

have no place except as they are inevitable from the language or the context. But aside from these views it is not
to be supposed that it was the purpose of the act to give to
the association the power to carry on, throughout the State,
for the period of ten years, gaming in the form disclosed in
this record, in defiance of the legislative authority, and without any check or limitation save such as they might choose
to impose upon themselves.
This conclusion renders it unnecessary to consider the
constitutional validity of the original act or the effect of the
repealing act. We have not found it necessary to consider
those subjects.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

INSURANCE

COMPANY V.

FOGARTY.

1. The cases in reference to the line of distinction between a total and a
partial marine loss examined, and the principle announced that it is not
necessary to a total loss that there should be an absolute extinction or
destruction of the thing insured, so that nothing of it can be delivered
at the point of destination.
2. A destruction in specie, so that while some of its component elements or
parts may remain, while the thing which was insured, in the character
or description by which it was insured, is destroyed, is a total loss.
3. Hence, where machinery was insured, to wit, the parts of a sugar-packing machine, and no part of the same was delivered in a condition
capable of use, it is a total loss, though more than half the pieces in
number and value may be delivered, and would have some valne as old
iron.
ERROR to the Circuit Court for the Southern District of
New York.

Fogarty sued the Great Western Insurance Company on
a policy of marine insurance and recovered a judgment for
$2611.95 and costs. The policy was an open one, and the
indorsenent procured by the plaintiff on it was of insurance
for $2250, on machinery on board the bark Ella Adele, at
and from New York to Havana, free from particular average.
The memorandum clause of the policy provided that ma-

Oct. 1873.]

INSURANCE COMPAN Y V. FOGARTY.

641

Statement of the case.

chines and machinery of every description were warranted
by the assured free from average unless general. The machinery insured consisted of the various parts necessary for
a complete sugar-packing machine, including, as part of it,
three sets of truck-irons, and also other extra truck-irons.
It was described in the bill of lading and invoice as eight
pieces and eight boxes, composing one sugar-packer and
three trucks.
The vessel on which these articles were being transported
from New York to Havana, just before reaching the latter
city, was driven on rocks in a violent gale, was filled with
water, and finally became a total wreck, and was abandoned
to the underwriters. Their agent at Havana took possession, and was engaged about a month in raising the cargo.
A large number of the pieces composing the plaintiff's machinery was recovered and tendered to him at Havana,
which he refused to receive, on the ground that the insurance company was liable to him as for a total loss. They
denied that under the circumstances of the case there was a
total loss within the meaning of the policy; and the soundness of the instruction to the jury on that point, given and
refused by the Circuit Court on the trial, was the only question now before this court.
There was very little conflict of testimony as to what was
recovered and what was its condition when tendered to plaintiff. It was all of iron About half of it in weight was saved,
and the remainder left at the bottom of the sea. That which
was saved was entirely useless as machinery, and was of no
value except as old iron, for which purpose it would sell for
about $50. The machinery in working order was worth
$2250. That which was saved was much broken and rusted,
so that it would cost more to repair it, polish it, and put it
in order for use than to buy a new machine.
Upon the testimony offered by the plaintiff the counsel
for the defendant moved the court to instruct the jury that
the action could not be sustained, because it showed that
there was not a total loss. The court declined to do this,
and the request was renewed at the conclusion of the deVOL. XIX.

41

642

INSURANCE COMPANY V. FOGARTY.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

fendant's evidence, and again declined. Several prayers for
instruction were then presented by the defendant, based
upon the leading proposition, that if any of the pieces of the
machinery insured was recovered and tendered in specie to
the assured, there was no total loss. These were refused
and exceptions taken to all these refusals, on which error is
assigned here. An exception was also taken as to the charge
of the court laying down the law by which the jury were to
decide the question of total loss submitted to them. That
charge was in the following words:
"The meaning of the term 'free from particular average,' used
in the policy, was that the defendants should be liable only for
a total loss of the subject insured; that the subject insured was
not machines but machinery, by which is generally understood
the several parts or portions of machines, adapted and fitted to
be put together so as to constitute a machine (in this case a
sugar-packing machine), and, applying the rule of law as to
what constitutes a total loss to this particular subject insured,
the jury will find whether any piece or portion of the machinery
insured arrived at its destination in a perfect condition, so that
it could have been used with its corresponding or connecting
pieces had they also arrived in good condition; in that case the
plaintiffs could not recover, as the loss would not be total; but
that if every piece of the machinery was so damaged by the
perils insured against as to be entirely unfit for use on being
supplied with its corresponding or connecting pieces, then there
was a total loss of the subject insured as machinery, although
the material itself might still exist; and if they so found, they
would find a verdict for the plaintiff for the sum named in the
policy with interest from the tenth day of September, 1868."
Verdict and judgment having gone for the plaintiff, the
insurance company brought the case here.

Mr. TV 3. Earts,for the plainliffin error; Mr. S. P. Nash,
contra.
Mr. Justice MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.
The question presented in this case for consideration has
been often in the courts, and the discriminations between

Oct. 1873.]

INSURANCE CO0MPANY v. FOGARTY.

643

Opinion of the court.

what is total loss and what is not are frequently very nice
and delicate. The authorities are by no means uniform or
consistent with each other, when, as in the present case, the
line of distinction is very narrow. Several cases bearing
upon the one before us have been decided in this court, and
perhaps a short review of them may aid us here better than
a more extended examination of the numerous other authorities on the subject.
In the case of Biays v. ChesapeakeInsurance Co.,* the plaintiff was insured upon hides, the whole number of which
was 14,565. Of these, 789 were totally lost by the sinking
of a lighter, and 2491 of those sunk were fished up in a damaged condition and sold. The hides were memorandum
articles, and this court held that inasmuch as less than 800
hides insured as part of a much larger number of the same
kind was lost, it could not be a total loss, and overruled the
argument that it was a total loss as to the 789 hides.
In the case of Mareardeirv. Chesapeake Insurance Co.,t it is
said that "it seems to be the settled doctrine that nothing
short of a total extinction either physical or in value of memorandum articles at an intermediate port would entitle the
insured to term the case a total loss, where the voyage is
capable of being performed. And perhaps even as to an extinction in value, where the commodity specifically remains,
it may yet be deemed not quite settled whether, under like
circumstances, it would authorize an abandonment for a
total loss."
In the case of Morean v. The United States Insurance CO.,$
more than half of a cargo of corn was thrown overboard and
lost. The remainder was saved in a damaged condition and
sold at about one-fourth the market value of sound corn.
This was held not to be a total loss, because part of the corn
was saved, and though damaged was of some value. It was,
therefore, only a partial loss.
The next case is that of Rugg v. The Augusta Insurance Co.ยง
* 7 Cranch, 415.
1I Wheaton, 219.

t 8 Id. 47.
7 Howard, 595.

644

INSURANCE COMPANY V. FOGAITY.

[Sun.

Cf.

Opinion of the court.

The question there arose on an insurance of jerked beef of
four hundred tons, part of which was thrown into the sea
and part of the remainder so seriously damaged that the au.
thorities of the city of Nassau refused to allow more than
150 of it to be landed. This was wet and heated, and not
in a condition for reshipment. In answer to a question on
this subject, certified to this court by the judges of the Oircuit Court, it was replied, "that if the jury found that the
jerked beef was a perishable article within the meaning of
the policy, the defendant is not liable as for a total loss of
the freight, unless it appears that there was a destruction in
specie of the entire cargo so that it had lost its original character at Nassau, or that a total destruction would have been
inevitable from the damage received if it had been reshipped
before it could have arrived at Matanzas, the port of destination." And though there are some very strong expressions
of the judge who delivered the opinion as to the necessity
of the total destruction of the thing insured to establish a
total loss in memorandum articles, no doubt the language
here certified is the true expression of the court's opinion.
And it will be observed that in this case, as in the case of
JMarcardeirv. ChesapeakeInsurance Co., the destruction spoken
of is destruction as to species, and not mere physical extinction. Indeed, philosophically speaking, there can be no
such thing as absolute extinction. That of which the thing
insured was composed must remain in its parts, though destroyed as to its specific identity. In the case of the jerked
beef, for instance, it might remain as a viscid mass of putrid
flesh, but it would no longer be either beef or jerked beef.
And when the case went back for trial in the Circuit, the
charge of Taney, 0. J., to the jury places this point in a very
clear light.* He says there was not a total loss at Nassau,
because a part of the jerked beef remained in specie, and
had not been destroyed by the disaster. And if there was
reasonable ground for believing that a portion of this beef
could, by repairing the vessel, have been transported to
*

Taney's Decisions, 168.

Oct. 1873.]

INsuRANCE CoMPANY v. FOGARTY.

645

Opinion of the court.

Matanzas, although it might arrive there in a damaged condition, but yet retaining the character ofjerked beef, there was
no total loss. The jury found there was a total loss. The
case of Judah v. Randal,* where a carriage was insured and
all was lost but the wheels, is another illustration of the
principle. A. part of the carriage, namely, the wheels, a
very important part, was saved; but the court held that the
thing insured, to wit, the carriage, was lost-that it was a
total loss. Its specific character as a carriage was gone.
In the case of Wallerstein v. The Columnbian Insuranceco.,t
the whole doctrine is ably reviewed with a very full refereuce to previous decisions, and it is there shown that there
is far from unanimity in the language in which the rule is
expressed; and the extreme doctrine of an absolute extinction or destruction of the thing insured is not the true doctrine, or, at least, is not applicable in all cases as a criterion
of total loss.
The Circuit Court was right in holding that what was insured was machinery-pieces or parts of a machine-pieces
made and shaped to unite at points with other pieces, so as
to make a sugar-packing machine. If parts of them were
absolutely lost, and every piece recovered had lost its adaptability to be used as part of the machine; had lost it so entirely that it would cost as much to buy a new piece just like
it, as to repair or adapt that one to the purpose, then there
was a total loss of the machinery. If no piece recovered
was of any use, or could be applied to any use connected
with the machine of which it was a part, without more expense on it than its original cost, then there was no part of
the machinery saved, however much of rusty iron may have
been taken from the wreck. The court went quite as far in
behalf of the defendant as the law justified, when it told the
jury that the plaintiff could not recover if any piece or portion of the machinery insured arrived at its destination in a
condition so perfect that it could have been used with its
corresponding or connecting pieces, had they also arrived in
good condition.
*2 Ca,'ne's Cases) 324.

t- ,44 lNew York, 204.

WARREN V. VAN BRUNT.

[Sup. Ot.

Syllabus.

We are of opinion that the charge of the court put the
case very fairly to the jury, as we understand the law, and
the judgment is, therefore,
AFFIRMED.

-WARREN V. VAN BRUNT.
1. Where two persons, before a public survey of it, made a settlement in
Mlinnesota on the same forty acres of land (a quarter of a quarter-section and the smallest legal subdivision allowed by statute), which settlement was in point of fact made at the same time-a joint settlement
therefore-the circumstance that in his declaratory statement, one of
the settlers has stated that his settlement was made on a day anterior to
the day which the other in his declaratory statement fixed as the date
of his, is not a circumstance which will induce this court to reverse a
decision of the register and receiver of the land office, affirmed by the
Secretary of the Interior, awarding the tract to him who the other
alleges made the later settlement; there being no fraud, imposition, or
mistake in the case. The court will regard the facts of the case, not
the allegations of the parties.
2. Where two joint settlers on such a piece of land, built from joint means
and for a time jointly occupied a house there, which house-on a misunderstanding between them and the running of a line apportioning the
land between them-was found to be on the land of one who now removed from and remained away from the land for several months, leaving the other in possession of the house (not as his tenant but as part
owner, and till he-the one on whose land it was-could pay to the other
half the sum which its erection had cost), and then, on payment of this
money, evicted the co-settler and put his own tenants in (he himself
occupying a wholly different forty acres, while the co-settler remained
in effect on the old tract, and built and afterwards occupied a house for
himself and family on it), held-on a bill which set up a superior right
of pre-emption to the whole forty acres and not an equitable right to a
joint ownership, or an ownership to part as settled by the dividing linethat this court would not reverse a decision of the register and receiver
affirmed by the Secretary of the Interior which on a similar claim by the
party who had removed, awarded the whole to the other party who with
his family remained.
8 A party cannot set up in his replication a claim not in any way made in
his bill, and the granting of which he asks in his replication only in the
event that the case made in his bill fails.
4 An entry of the public land by one person in trust for another being
forbidden by statute, equity will not, on a bill to enforce such a trust,
decree that any entry in trust was made.

