CREWS

v.

B REWER.

[Slip. Ot

Statement of the case in the opinion.

Opposed to that it may be suggested that the judgment
shows that interest is allowed, but the answer to that is that
neither the finding nor the judgment shows anything in
regard to the principal except the amount awarded to the
plaintiff Nothing can be inferred from the declaration to
support the defence of illegality, as it contains only the
money counts, nor from the bill of particulars filed in the
case, as it gives only the dates of the payments and makes
no reference to the date of the contract. Support to the
defence is entirely wanting without resorting to the evidence
as reported in the bill of exceptions, which includes all that
was introduced on both sides and is unaccompanied by any
special finding of the facts. Issues of fact cannot be fbund
by this court, as the act of Congress requires that such issues
shall be found by the Circuit Court. Consequently there
can be no review of the finding of the Circuit Court where
the finding is general, nor of the conclusions of the Circuit
Court embodied in the general finding.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

CREWS v. BREWER.
The doctrine of the preceding case reaffirmed. Declared further, and in
explanation, that a mere report of the evidence is not such a special
finding or authorized statement of the case as will allow this court to
pass upon the judgment given.
ERROR

to the Circuit Court for the INorthern District of

Illinois.
Mr. Albert Pike, for the plaintiff in error; Mr. Gustavus Koerner, contra.
Mr. Justice CLIFFORD stated the case and delivered the
opinion of the court.
Complaint was made by the plaintiff that the defendant,

Oct. 1873.]

CREWS

v).

BREWER.

Statement of the case in the opinion.

at the time and place mentioned in the declaration, broke
and entered the plaintiff's close therein described and ejected
him from the premises, and that the defendant still unlawfully withholds the possession of the same from the plaintiff;
and the plaintiff avers that he claims title to the land in fee,
and that the same is worth $5000. Service was made and
the defendant appeared and pleaded that he was not guilty
of unlawfully withholding the premises claimed by the plain.
tiff in the manner and form as alleged in the declaration.
Issue was joined by the plaintiff, but the parties subsequently
appeared and waived a jury and submitted the issue to the
court. Evidence was introduced on both sides, and the
record states that "the court being sufficiently advised finds
the issue for the defendant, that he is not guilty of unlawfully withholding from the plaintiff the possession of the
premises," as alleged in the declaration. A motion for new
trial was filed by the plaintiff, which was overruled by the
court, and the court entered judgment for the defendant
and that be recover the costs of suit. Leave was granted to
the plaintiff to file a bill of exceptions within sixty days,
and within that period he filed the paper exhibited in the
transcript, which is denominated the bill of exceptions.
Evidence, consisting of a certain patent and certain original
deeds, and of certain depositions and a certain record and
other documents, was introduced by the plaintiff. Countervailing evidence was then introduced by the defendant, consisting of oral testimony and a copy of a deed, all of which,
together with that introduced by the plaintiff, is set forth at
large in the instrument called the bill of exceptions. All of
the evidence was introduced without objection, and of course
was properly admitted. Instructions were asked by the
plaintiff at the close of the trial, which the court refused to
adopt, and stated what the conclusions of court were as
matter of law, in view of the whole evidence reported in the
bill of exceptions. To each and all of which propositions of
law the plaintiff then and there excepted and his exceptions
were duly allowed. Dissatisfied with the judgment the
plaintiff sued out a writ of error and removed the cause into

CREWS V. BREWER.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

this court. Error is assigned in this court controverting
each and every one of the propositions of law decided by
the Circuit Court.
Suffice it to say, that the finding of the Circuit is general,'
and that there is no authorized statement of facts in the
record. Under such circumstances our decision is that no
review of the questions of law can be had in this court, except such as arise from the rulings of the court made in
the progress of the trial, as it would impose upon this court
the duty of hearing the whole case, law and fact, as on an
appeal in chancery or in an admiralty suit, which would
operate as a repeal of the provision in the act of Congress,
that issues of fact in such cases may be tried and determined
by the Circuit Court; and would also violate that clause of
the twenty-second section of the Judiciary Act which prohibits this court from reversing any judgment "for any error
of fact."* Questions of fact will not be reviewed by this
court in common-law actions, nor can the questions of law
presented in such cases be re-examined here unless the matters of fact out of which they arise are, in some authorized
form, given in the record; to which it may be added, as applicable to cases tried by the court, that a mere report of
the evidence is not sufficient, as it belongs to the Circuit
Court to find the facts, and in order to do that the Circuit
Court must weigh the evidence and draw the inferences of
fact from the whole evidence given in the case.t
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

1 Stat. at Large, 85; Insurance Co. v. Folsom, 18 Wallace, 237; Dirst
v. Morris, 14 Id. 490; Basset v. United States, 9 Id. 40; Miller r. Insurance
Co., 12 Id. 297.
t Tancred r. Christy, 12 Meeson & Welsby, 828.

