Oct. 1873.]

]KLEIN V. RUSSELL.
Syllabus.

effect a stay of execution, but if the security required is
given within sixty days the supersedeas becomes effectual
from the time the required security is given.

KLEIN V. IUSSELL.
1. Where on a trial for infringement of a reissue of letters-patent-the defence being a want of novelty-a defendant requests the court below
to direct the jury to bring in a verdict for the defendant (no objection
being then or having during the trial been taken by such defendant,
that the reissue was for a different invention from that secured by the
original patent), and the request for the direction juststated not having
been on that ground, but on the ground of the evidence "relative to the
alleged prior use of the process, and the novelty, and usefulness, character, and effect of the alleged invention being so decisive as to entitle
the defendant to a verdict "-and the request has been refused-the defendant cannot assign as error the refusal to give the direction, because
the reissue was not for the same invention as was the original patent.
2. A reissue is prim facie to be presumed to be for the same invention as
is the original patent.
3. A direction to find for one party or the other can only be given where
there is no conflict of evidence.
4. Where, on a question of novelty in a patented process, a witness has
stated that, after the patent, he was using a particular process which he
had been using for twenty years before (a process which the defendant
affirmed to be the same as the one patented), it is allowable to ask the
witness whether the patentee had not forbid him to use what he was
then using; the purpose of the question being to show that the patentee
had forbid him, and that the witness then disclaimed using the patented
process, and said that he had "a way of his own" which he was using.
5. It is allowable to ask a witness of the opposite side, who has referred to
and said that he had seen and copied a paper in reference to the expenses
of the suit, subscribed by various persons, what were the contents of the
paper; the purpose of the question being to show by the answer that
the defendants' witnesses were in a combination to defeat the plaintiff
and to share the expense of the opposition. It was not necessary prior
to the question to call on any one to produce the original paper.
6 When a patent is on trial and the question in issue involves the matter
of novelty, utility, and modus operandi, it is proper enough to ask what
the effect of the patented invention has been.
7. In construing a patent courts should proceed in a liberal spirit, so as to
sustain the patent and the construction claimed by the patentee, if it can
VOL. XIX.

23

KLEIN V. RUSSELL.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.
be done consistently with the language which he has employed; and
this applies to a reissue as much as to an original patent.
8. Hence when there has been a reissue on an original patent, and the
meaning of the specification and claim in the reissue is not perfectly
clear, they may be read by the light of the specification and claim of the
original patent, and if they can be sustained consistently with the language there used, be sustained by them.
9 A request which asks the court to charge that if a process patented was
known to others more than two years before the plaintiff appliedfor his
patent, the plaintiff's patent is void-is rightly refused.
1O.Where a specification in describing the mode of treating articles with a
patented process (a liquid) said that "it is desirable to heat the latter to
or near the boiling-point," and there was testimony that if applied while
in that state to the articles to be treated it would greatly injure them,
as also that if it was suffered to cool before being applied it possessed
virtue, a request which asked the court to charge that the proper construction of the patent is that if the liquid applied at such a temperature is injurious and pernicious, the patent is void for want of utility, is
rightly modified by a change which makes the charge say to the jury
that the proper construction is that the liquid should be applied at or
near the boiling-point under the common knowledge of persons skilled in
the art of treating the articles to be affected and to procure the desired
*
results, and in reference to the fact whether such knowledge would
make them wait until it was partially cooled before its application;
and that if the application of the liquid at such a temperature as is required by the specification, under this qualifieation,was injurious and
pernicious, then that the patent was void for want of utility.
11.Where one claim of a patent was for treatment by a compound composed
of a liquid and other ingredients mentioned, a request for an instruction that the addition to the liquid of the ingredients is not patentable
if such addition does not change the properties of the liquid, or its effect
or usefulness, when applied to the purposes mentioned in the patent, is
rightly modified by charging as requested with the addition of the
words "or to other like purposes."
12. A claim for a compound is not void because the specification does not
prescribe exact and unvarying proportions in the ingredients of a compound; some of the ingredients being, ex. gr., coloring matter, which
the specification says may "be omitted or modified as desired."
38. A court is not bound to comply with requests for charges on points not
raised by the evidence; nor when it has charged generally on the subject
in its general charge, to repeat itself by answering requests for the same
instructions.

to the Circuit Court for the Northern District of
-NewYork; in which court one Russell, a glover, of GlovERROR

* See infra, p. 444, note.

Oct. 1873.]

]KLEIN V.

RUSSELL.

Statement of the case.

ersville, :New York, brought suit against Klein, glover in the
same place, for an infringement of a patent. The plaintiff
got a verdict; the defendant having in the course of the trial
taken various exceptions, on which the case was now here.
The case was thus:
In August, 1869, Russell obtained a patent for a new and
useful improved process of treating leather so as to render
it suitable for the manufacture of gloves. The specification
said:
"1Myinvention consists in a novel treatment of what is known
as 'bark-tanned lamb or sheep skin,' an article used by bookbinders, and which, while sufficiently soft and supple for the
purposes of their trade, is too harsh and stiff for glove-making
and a variety of other purposes. This objection is removed by
my treatment of the article, and the leather rendered so soft
and free, yet full in respect of body, as to adapt it, among other
purposes or uses, to the making of what are termed ' dogskin
gloves.'
"The process I adopt, and which constitutes my invention, is
as follows: I take of ' fat liquor' obtained in scouring deerskin
after tanning in oil, say ten gallons, and warm the same by heating to or near the boiling-point. I then add to such heated fat
liquor eight ounces of sal soda, twelve ounces of common salt,
one pint of soft-soap, and four ounces of Venetian red, and stir
and mix these several ingredients with the fat liquor. This
forms the treating mixture or compound; and when made in
the foregoing quantity will suffice for five or six dozen skins,
but of course such quantity may be more or less varied, as may
also the proportions of the ingredients; and the Venetian red or
other coloring matter is modified or omitted as desired.
"To effect the treatment hereinbefore referred to, of the barktanned lamb or sheep skins, I lay said skin on a table or other
suitable surface, and rub the above-described compound on to both
sides of it, using for the purpose a horse or other suitable brush
or rubber, by which it can be worked into the skin, that is afterward hung out to dry, and subsequently 'staked,' when the
character of the skin will be found entirely changed from harshness to softness, and in other respects, thereby adapting it to
the manufacture of gloves of the description previously named,

KLEIN

v.

RUSSELL.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.
and to a variety of other purposes for which said skin was not
suitable prior to the treatment of it I have herein described."
The claim was thus:
"What is here claimed and desired to be secured by letterspatent is the process substantially as herein described, of treating
bark-tanned lamb or sheep skin by means of a compound composed and applied essentially as specified."
On the 1st of February, 1870, Russell got a reissue of this
patent under the thirteenth section of the Patent Act,*
which permits a patentee, whenever any patent is "inoperative or invalid by reason of a defective or insufficient description or specification, or by reason of the patentee claiming
in his specification as his own invention more than he had a
right to claim as new, if the error has arisen by inadvertency, accident, or mistake," to apply for a new patent, and
in such case authorizes a new patent to be issued for "the
same invention," in accordance with the patentee's corrected
description and specification.
In the reissue, the invention having been described exactly as in the original patent, the specification said:
"The principal feature of the invention consists in the employment of what is known amongst tanners and others as 'fat
liquor,' which is ordinarily obtained by scouring deerskins after
tanning in oil, but which, when it is not convenient to obtain in
this manner, may be produced as a liquor having the same character obtained by the cutting of oil with a suitable alkali.
"In treating leather with the 'fat liquor' it is desirable to
heat the latter to or near the boiling-point, and it is preferred to
use the same in connection with other ingredients. Thus, for
instance, there may be added to each ten gallons of such heated
fat liquor eight ounces of sal soda, twelve ounces common salt,
one pint of soft soap or an equivalent quantity of hard soap, and
four ounces of Venetian red, such ingredients to be well stirred
and mixed with the fat liquor.
"This forms a good treating mixture or compound, and, when
made in the foregoing quantity, will suffice for five or six dozen
5 Stat. at Large, 122.

Oct. 1873.]

X LEIN

v. RUSSELL.

Statement of the case.

skins; but, of course, such quantity may be more or less varied,
as may also the proportions of the ingredients, and the Venetian
red, or other coloring matter be modfied or omitted as desired.
"To effect the treatment hereinbefore referred to, of the barktanned lamb or sheep skin, the same should be well dipped in or
saturated with the fat liquor oR compound of which fat liquor is
the base. This may be done by laying the skin to be treated
on a table or other suitable surface and rubbing the fat liquor oR
compound on or into both sides of the skin, using for the purpose
a horse or other suitable brush or rubber, by which it can be
worked into the skin, that is afterward hung out to dry, and
subsequently ' staked,' when the character of said skin will be
found entirely changed from harshness to softness, and other
respects, thereby adapting it to the manufacture of gloves of the
description previously named, and to a variety of other purposes for which said skin was not suitable prior to the treatment
of it I have herein described."
The claim was thus:
"What is here claimed and desired to be secured by letterspatent is:
"1. The employment offat liquor in the treatment of leather
substantially as specified.
"2. The process, substantially as herein described, of treating
bark-tanned lamb or sheep skin by means of a compound composed and applied essentially as specified."
Upon this reissue Russell sued Klein as an infringer. His
allegation was that bark-tanned leather before his treatment
of it was harsh, "squeaky," and unsuitable for gloves; but
that by his process, which, as he alleged, included heating the
fat liquor, the "squeak" was removed, and the leather rendered soft, pliable, and suitable for a fine glove; that the
treatment costing little greatly enhanced the value of the
leather, and furnished a cheaper material for gloves than
any other of the same quality and value.
The plaintiff's charge of infringement was wholly confined to the use of his process, including heat; and there
was no allegation that the defendant had violated the plain.
tiff's rights by using fat liquor without heating it.

138

18LEIN V.

RUSSELL.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

The defence was want of novelty. The case was heard
before the district judge, sitting on the circuit. Numerous
witnesses in behalf of the defendant swore that the application of fat liquor to leather, for the purpose of making it
soft and pliable, had been known and in more or less use
fbr many years; though they did not swear clearly that the
application of fat liquor in a heated state with the effects
which, in that state, it produced had been thus known or in
use; and there was no proof by them of any use of fat liquor
since the plaintiff's process had been patented otherwise
than by beating the ingredients. Nor did they all swear so
fully that the application and value of it was known in regard to bark-tanned skins; a good deal of their testimony
relating to oil-tanned skins; and some of it to tanning raw
skins or skins imperfectly tanned. Some stated that fat
liquor heated near the boiling-point and so applied would
ruin the skins.
On the other hand, numerous witnesses of the plaintiff,
glovers, at Gloversville, and elsewhere, more or less familiar
with the glove business in the vicinity, and during the term
of alleged prior knowledge spoken of by the witnesses of
the defendant, testified that they had no knowledge of such
leather as that which the plaintiff produced till about the
date of his patent; that then the kind of leather produced
by him with heated fat oils, &c., went into extensive use,
and that there was a great demand for it in the market.
Some of these witnesses stated that heating the fat liquor
to the boiling-point and allowing it to cool so as to make it
capable of being worked in, did not destroy its properties.
And the testimony of the witnesses of the defendant on
cross-examination, tended perhaps to show that their knowledge of the means of softening leather at all by fat oils was
very imperfect, and that what product was produced from
bark-tanned skins was much inferior to that produced by
the plaintiff; and was still affected with "squeak," and
could not be used for the better sorts of glove; and that
while they had experimented with heated fat oil, they had

Oct. 1873.]

KLEIN V. RUSSELL.
Statement of the case.

never brought any of their ideas to a practical use, and had
abandoned them.
In the course of the trial, one Uriel Case, a witness of the
defendant, having testified as to the manner in which skins
were treated twenty years ago, which manner the defendant asserted was substantially like the patented process; and
having testified further that he had treated skins in this
manner for twenty years until after the issue of the plaintiff's patent, was asked by the plaintiff"Did the plaintiff come and forbid you going on "
A question to which the defendant objected as immaterial,
incompetent, and as calling for the declaration of the plaintiff. But the court allowed the question to be put; the defendant excepting. The witness stated that the plaintiff did
not forbid him, but asked him, "Are you not interfering
with my patent?" and that he, the witness, "might have
told him that be had a way of his own of fixing bark-tanned
skins," "that he did not remember having said anything
about its being ai old thing, or having been done so twenty
years ago."
So too, one Place, a witness of the defendant, having disclosed on cross-examination the facts, that he was a glover
at Gloversville, in partnership with his brother, and that the
plaintiff in the present case had sued him and his said brother
some time before for an infringement of this same patent;
that he, the witness, was now present, as his brother also
was, without any payment of witness fees, as a witness for
the defendant; that his brother had given him a paper in
reference to the expenses of this suit; that he, the witness,
had copied it and given it back to his brother, and had not
seen. it since-was asked by the plaintiff to state the substance of that paper. This was objected to by the defendant: 1st. Upon the ground that the statement of the witness
was not the best evidence. 2d. Because no foundation bad
been laid for the production of the secondary evidence of
the contents of the papers in question; and 3d. Because the
testimony would be immaterial and incompetent. But the

KLEIN V. RUSSELL.

[Sup. ot.

Statement of the case.

court held the question admissible, the defendant excepting.
The witness answered:
It was merely in substance to defend the manufacturing interests against Russell's patent. I didn't know who signed it."
The defendant having given evidence of the use of fat
liquor upon oil-tanned skins for many years prior to plaintiff's patent, which use, he asserted, was the same, substantially, as the patented process-and the plaintiff having
given evidence that the oil-tanned skins referred to in such
testimony, were skins dressed "from the raw" in oil, and
that the fat liquor used upon them was a part of, or in aid of,
the oil-dressing process-and the plaintiff asserting that the
use of the fat liquor in the process of oil tanning, was essentially different from the patented process, that in oil dressing, as it is termed, the fat liquor was used in connection
with oil for the purpose of tanning the pelt, or, in other
words, of converting it into leather from the raw state, while in
the patented process the fat liquor was applied to a skin
already tanned, and for the purpose of softening and adding
new properties to it-called a witness, one Dr. Porter, who
stated that he was a physician and chemist, and had examined the patent of Russell and the specifications, and had
made tests and experiments in relation to the fat liquor and
the process therein described. The plaintiff then asked him:
"Will you state whether the effect of fat liquor applied to oiltanned and bark-tanned skins is the same."
The defendant objected to the question "as immaterial,
the purpose for which the process is used being immaterial,
if the process is the same;" but the court allowed the question to be put. The witness answered "that the general
effect was the same, but that the combination by the fat
liquor with the different skins produced compounds essentially different."
The record, which set out the substance of the evidence,
proceeded:
"The evidence here closed, and the foregoing comprised the

Oct. 1873.]

K-LEIN v. R USSELL.
Statement of the case.

substance of all the evidence given relative to the alleged prior
use of the process mentioned in the patent, and the novelty and usefulness, characterand effect, of the alleged invention of plaintiff;
and thereupon the counsel for the defendant insisted before the
said judge that the said several matters so produced and given
in evidence as aforesaid were sufficient, and ought to be allowed
as decisive evidence to entitle the defendant to a verdict, and
requested the said judge to direct the said jury to find a verdict
for the defendant."
The judge refused so to direct the jury, and proceeded to
charge; charging among other things" That, taking the reissued patent as the basis of the plaintiff's
claim, the true construction of the first claim is the employment
of fat liquor generally in the state in which it comes from the
mills, in the treatment of leather substantially as described;
that this claim covered the employment of fat liquor inits pure
and simple state.
"That the second claim covered the compound substantially
as described in the specification, and that the heating of the
liquor was an essential portion of the patented process under
this claim.
"That specifications are not addressed to men entirely ignorant of the manufacture to which the specification relates, but
to persons skilled in the art to which it appertains; that if,
upon reading this specification, parties skilled in the art of
dressing skins would know that this heating was for the purpose of making this compound with the fat liquor or for some
other purpose, and that it would not do to apply the fat liquor
at or near the boiling-point, because it would destroy the leather,
such parties would not be misled by it, and therefore it would
not be a fatal defect; but that, if persons skilled in the art, in
attempting to put the plaintiff's invention in practice under this
specification, would ordinarily apply the liquor to the skins used
while it was at or near the boiling-point, and thus destroy them,
then, of course, this specification was bad.
"That the jury were to consider the claim of the plaintiff as
embracing two distinct and independent things; that the plaintiff had a right, if he was the first and original inventor of the
use of fat liquor, in its simple and pure state, in this process, to
secure that to himself pure and simple, and to hold, as an in,

KLEIN V.

RUSSELL.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.
fringer, any one who used it without adding the other ingredients that went to make up the compound specified; that he
had a right to secure the use of the fat liquor and the other
ingredients also, but that the difficulty was, so far as this case
was concerned, that the party having embraced within his
claim the use of fat liquor in its pure and simple state, the question of heat or of the use of the compound was not very important to the interests of the parties, because, if the party claimed
in his patent what was not new, or a substantial or material
part of which was not new, the patent was void.
"That, if the jury were satisfied that this process of employing
fat liquor inthe treatment of leather, as substantially described
in the patent, was known, that the process had been perfected,
and had been used prior to this time of the plaintiff's invention,
and that the persons who used the process had an intelligent
comprehension of its character and the effect produced, vbe
patent would be void; and that, upon the question of the validity of the patent, they were to look to the proof in regard to
the use of fat liquor, substantially in the manner described
when fat liquor alone is used, unconnected with the other ingredients constituting the compound, which is covered by the
second claim in the patent; that, if the jury should find that
this process had been used prior to plaintiff's alleged invention
by other persons, as stated and claimed here, that the persons
who used the process were aware of the object and character
of it, observed and comprehended the beneficial results produced
by its use, then the patent would be void upon the ground of
want of novelty, although some circumstances might have induced them to abandon temporarily the actual practice of the
invention, or the use of the process.
"That if they came to the conclusion that the process claimed
in the first specification, that is the fat liquor had been so used
substantially as described in the specification before this invention, that was the end of the case.
"But if they should come to the conclusion, upon the other
hand, that all these other experiments were failures and were
abandoned, then they would come to the question of infringement.
"That the proof in regard to the quality and character of
leather produced and the knowledge of it at Gloversville and
vicinity, and the want of knowledge of it, was proper for the

Oct. 1873.]

KLEIN v. RUSSELL.
Statement of the case.

consideration of the jury, in connection with the question of
whether these experiments were failures; whether this process
was perfected and used; or whether the experiments and trials
never reached the point of invention and were consequently
abandoned. But it was not a question whether the result of
the use of the process was as perfect at the time as it is now.
It was a question whether, substantially, the same process was
used."
The PLAINTIFF'S counsel then requested the judge to charge

the jury,
"That the application of heat to the liquor, and the use of
liquor, as described, while in a heated state, are essential parts
of the invention or discovery; but it is not, by necessary construction, required by the patent that the liquor should be applied to the skins at or near the boiling heat."
The judge declined to thus charge, on the ground that,
under the first claim of the patent, neither the heating of
the fat liquor nor the application or use of it, in a heated
state, was an essential portion of the process.
The DEFENDANT'S counsel then requested the judge to
charge,
"1st. That the invention, as described in the patent of February, 1870, is the treatment of bark-tanned sheep and lamb
skins by the employment of fat liquor, and if such treatment
was known to others, and more than two years before the plaintiff applied for his patent, his patent is void."
Refused.
"2d. That the proper construction of the patent is that the
fat liquor should be applied at or near the boiling-point, and if
the application of fat liquor at such a temperature to leather is
injurious and pernicious the patent is void for want of utility."
Refused in the form put, but modified and given thus:
"The proper construction of the second claim of the patent,
so far as it relates to the application of heat, is that the compound composed of fat liquor and the other ingredients required,
should be applied at or near the boiling-point, under the common,

444

KLEIN v. RUSSELL.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

knowledge of persons skilled in the art of treating this leather, to
procure softness and pliability [?*], would make them wait until
it was partially cooled before its application, and if the application of fat liquor at such a temperature to leather as is required
by the specification under this qualification is injurious and pernicious the patent is void for want of utility, and the defendant
entitled to a verdict."
"3d. That if the patent did not intend that the fat liquor be
applied to leather when at or near the boiling-point, it is, in respect to the application of heat, void for ambiguity."
Refused for the reasons substantially appearing in the
modification of the last preceding request.
"4th. That if cooling the fat liquor after boiling is an essential
point of the plaintiff's process, then the patent is void for not
indicating that such process of cooling is necessary or how it is
to be accomplished."
Refused in the form put, but modified and given by adding thereto the words:
"Unless the common knowledge of persons skilled in the
art of treating this leather to produce softness and pliability
would make the operator wait until it was partially cooled before its application."
"5th. That the addition to the fat liquor of the other ingredients mentioned in the specifications is not patentable if such
addition does not change the properties of the fat liquor, or its
effect or usefulness, when applied to the purposes mentioned in
the patent or specification."
Refused in the form put, but thus modified and given:
"The addition to the fat liquor of other ingredients mentioned in the specifications is not of itself patentable, if such
addition does not change the properties of the fat liquor or its
effect or usefulness, when applied to the purposes mentioned in
the patent or specification, or to other like purposes."
"6th. That the process of preparing leather by means of a
Something was left out here in the transcript. In the syllabus I have
assumed that it was the words, "1and in reference to the fact whether such
knowledge," &c.

Oct. 187.3.]

KLEIN

v. RUSSELL.

Statement of the case.
compound, as claimed by the plaintiff, is not patentable, because
the proportions of such compound are not fixed, but are in all
respects indefinite and uncertain, and may be waived or omitted
by the terms of the patent!'
Refused.
"7th. That if fat liquor had been used substantially in the
manner specified in the plaintiff's patent, for the purpose of rendering any kind of leather soft and supple, more than two years
[before the plaintiff applied for a patent], the plaintiff cannot
recover, even though it had not been so used in dressing barktanned lamb or sheep skins."
Refused. The defendant then modified his request, by
substituting "used before the plaintiff's invention" for "before the plaintiff applied for a patent," and thereupon the
court charged,
11That the application of an old invention or an old machine
to produce a new result, because it is applied to a different ma-'
terial, is not an invention, and the question of novelty is to be
determined in the same way. That under the first claim of
the plaintiff's, if this particular process was used for the purpose
of softening leather, it is not material that it was bark-tanned
sheep or lamb skins, if it be used as a process for that purpose."
"18th. That if the object of plaintiff's process was to substitute a less valuable article for that commonly known as ' dogskin,' and to impose upon the public by representing gloves
made of softened sheep and lamb skins as dogskin gloves, the
patent is void for fraud, and plaintiff cannot recover."
Refused, and the jury thus charged:
"If the process patented cannot be made useful for any honest
purpose, and can be used only for perpetrating a fraud upon the
public, and is therefore not useful, but pernicious, the plaintiff
cannot recover."
"9th. That if anything claimed by the plaintiff in his patent,
as used, was in fact old, the entire patent was void, and plaintiff
could not recover."
Refused, except as had already been charged.
"10th. That the patent could not be sustained in the matter

K]LEIN V. RUSSELL.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

of the mere degree of heat, if the principle of applying heat to
any extent is an old process."
Refused, except as had already been charged.
The jury found for the plaintiff.
On a motion made for a new trial (the circuit judge,
Woodruff, J., now sitting), that learned justice was of
opinion that there was no sufficient reason for disturbing
the verdict. He said:
"The conflict of evidence upon the questions of fact was great,
and made it a very proper case for submission to the jury. The
impression on my own mind, after a careful examination of the
testimony, is that the verdict is right, and the plaintiff is in
fact the inventor of a new and useful process secured to him by
his patent, and that the defendant is a wilful and deliberate infringer of his rights."
Adverting to the construction of the patent, given by the
learned district judge, he observed that it differed from a
construction which he had himself put upon it on the trial
ou the circuit of another case by this same plaintiff, against
another defendant, on the same patent (Russell v. Place), and
where he instructed the jury that "the use of heat in the
treatment of skins was an essential part of the patented process." The learned justice continued:
"But this instruction was not excepted to by the defendant,
and he is not, as a matter of right, entitled to question the correctness of the charge to the jury on that point. In that particular, the question on a motion for a new trial is not simply
whether the instruction was correct. If it appeared to me to
be erroneous and yet it was clear that it worked no injustice to
the defendant, it would be no reason for granting a new trial."
The exceptions to the evidence he considered were not
well taken; independently of which the evidence led to
nothing. And on the principal questions, the learned circuit judge considering, as already said, that the instructions
of the court to the jury were, "at any rate, as favorable to
the defendant as he had a right to require, and that the

Oct. 1873.]

KLEIN V.

RUSSELL.

Argument against the reissue.

special instructions sought were charged as fully as the law
would allow," denied the motion for a new trial. The case
was now here in this position.
Mr. Matthew Hale, with whom was Mr. J. M. Dudley, for the
plaintiff in error:
I. The court erred in not directing the jury to find a verdict for
the defendant. 1. The suit was upon the reissued letters.
But those letters were void, because they were not granted
for the same invention as that embodied in the original letters-patent.
2. The original patent had but one claim, substantially
the same as the second claim in the reissued patent. This
was for the treatment of "bark-tanned lamb and sheep
skins" (not leather) with the same compound as in the reissue. The patentee stated in his original specification that
it is "a full, clear, and exact description" of the invention.
That "his invention consists in a novel treatment of what is
known as 'bark-tanned lamb and sheep skins.'" That "the
process" which he adopted and which " constituted his invention was as follows; "-here stating the ingredients of
the compound and proportions, substantially as stated in
the reissue, and describing only the mode of applying the
compound to the skin, of crushing it into the skin, as described in the reissue, closing with the claim stated.
In the comparison it will be seen that the original claimed
only the treatment of bark-tanned lamb And sheep skins with
the specific compound, brushed or rubbed on, neither describing, suggesting, nor indicating the treatment of leather generally at all, nor such skins with fat liquor alone without
said ingredients, nor the saturating by dipping. Upon the
face of the two patents the old was for treatment with the
compound alone, and the reissue is primarily for treatment
with simple fat liquor alone, stating only that the patentee
"preferred to use the same in connection with other ingredients;" and, after describing the compound, stating that
"this forms a good treating mixture or compound," and
closing with the second claim. It is simply for such treat-

KLEIN V.

RUSSELL.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument against the reissue.

ment with simple fat liquor as it comes from the mill (which
is in no way indicated in the original), interpolated with the
sole treatment and sole claim specified in the original, which
is now suggested only as a "preferable" way, and secondary to that of fat liquor alone.
3. Another view exists having the same result.* The
original letters were for the use of heated fat liquor, and the
reissue for the use of fat liquor generally; there being no
doubt that fat liquor generally, or in a cold state, had long
been used to soften leather; various additions-ammonia,
oil, eggs, &c.-being occasionally, though far from always,
made to improve its operation. If this was so, the reissue
was equally void. Now, what in the reissue did the patentee
claim as his discovery; the use of fat liquor, or the use of
heated fat liquor?
(a) The invention is alleged to consist in a novel treatment of bark-tanned sheepskins, by which treatment they
are rendered soft and free, and suitable to be manufactured
into dogskin gloves. This is the result or effect, merely,
and gives no light as to the process.
(b) The "principal feature of the invention" consists in
the employment of fat liquor, obtained from the scouring
of deerskins, or manufactured by a process described. The
employment of fat liquor, hot or cold, strong or weak,
natural or manufactured, is the principal feature. So long
as fat liquor in any condition is used, the principal feature
is preserved.
(c) In treating the leather with the fat liquor, it is "desirable" to heat the liquor, and it is "preferred" to use the same
in connection with other ingredients, to wit, the soda, the
salt, and soap, as specified.
The words "desirable" and "preferred" are used to express the same idea, and each is used in contrast with essential or necessary; the meaning is this: "It is desirable to
use the liquor heated, that is, the effect will be produced
* This view was taken by the Circuit Court for the Northern District of
New York in Russell v. Dodge.

Oct. 1873.]

O .KLEIN
V.

RUSSELL.

Argument against the reissue.

the more speedily, or with less trouble, or with less expense,
but it is not necessary to heat the liquor, and to use the
liquor in connection with the other ingredients is the preferable way, but it is not the only way. You may still accomplish the purpose, by using the liquor without the other ingredients and without its being heated."
"This forms," the statement adds, "a good treating mixture or compound." This, again, is an indication of a prefeience, but not of a necessity-a good treating mixture.
And again, "To effect the treatment... the skin should
be . . . saturated with the fat liquor or compound of which
fat liquor is the base." The fat liquor, without reference to
its state or condition, or the compound, is here stated as
the essential element, and the same expressions are again
used in describing the manner in which the liquor shall be
applied. It is not required that the liquor shall be heated.
After thus describing his process, the patentee sums up his
claim under the two heads already stated.
It is the settled rule in this country that the patent and
the specification are to be construed together, and that the
specification may control the general terms of the patent.*
A reference to the claim gives the precise information required of the essentials of the patent, to wit:
1st. "The employment of fat liquor in the treatment of
leather substantially as specified," making no distinction between its employment when cold or when heated; and 2d,
the process of treating the &<Ins by means of a compound
composed essentially as specified.
Now this reissue is, in this respect, quite different from
the original patent. In describing his process, the patentee
there says:
"I take of fat liquor obtained in scouring deerskins, after
tanning in oil, say ten gallons, and warm the same by heating
it to or near thb boiling-point. I then add to such heated fat
liquor eight ounces of sal soda," &c.
And his claim is for "the process substantially as herein
Curtis,
VOL. xI

29

221.

KLEIN V. RUSSELL.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument against the reissue.

by means of a compound composed and ap.
.
described,
plied essentially as specified." In this description the heating of the fat liquor is not merely "desirable" or to be
"preferred," it is an essential element of the process. But
this specification the patentee amends by making his claim
on the reissue reach the liquor itself, whether cold or hot,
and making it reach the liquor whether employed as a compound or alone. He abandons his original claim, except so
fi r as it is redescribed in the reissued patent.
The authorities 6how that the words "desirable" and
"preferred" are not essential parts of the description of the
article patented.* The patentee may have intended to take
a patent for use of heated fat liquor, but he has failed to express it in his description and specification.
II. The court erred further in not complying with our requests
for instructions. Let us examine them:
1st request. The court refused to charge that the invention
claimed by the plaintiff below, in his reissued patent, was
the treatment of bark-tanned sheep and lamb skins by the
employment of fat liquor; and that if such treatment was
known to others, and more than two years before the plaintiff applied for his patent, his patent was void, and the defendant entitled to a verdict.
The construction of the patent, as indicating only the use
of.fat liquor in dressing leather, whether hot or cold, alone
or with other ingredients, as the alleged invention of the
patentee, has already been shown to be the true one. Indeed, the patentee having, in surrendering his original
patent and procuring the reissue, necessarily sworn that the
original patent was inoperative and invalid by reason of a defective or insufficient specification, and the original patent
having described a compound precisely like that recommended in the reissue, and indicated much more clearly
than the reissue, that the application of heat was an essential
* Booth v. Kennard, 1 Hurlstone & Norman, 527; Stevens v. Keating, 2
Webster's Patent Cases, 172; Curtis, 258.

Oct. 1873.3

K LEIN V. R:USSELL.
Argument against the reissue.

element in this invention, he is now estopped from asserting
that the same identical thing recommended in the specification and second claim of the reissue is valid and operative.*
Unless the defendant in error was the inventor of the use of
fat liquor for the purpose indicated, he took nothing by the
reissue.
The second branch of the request, that knowledge of this
treatment by others more than two years before plaintif applied for his patent rendered the patent void, was also correct.t
The charge of the court had limited the effect of know]edge by others to two years before the alleged invention, which
was erroneous.
2d, 3d, and 4th requests. The court below also erred in refusing these three requests to charge in relation to the construction of the patent, so far as it related to the application
of heat, and in modifying the instructions requested as it did.
The patent recommended that the fat liquor be heated
"to or near the boiling-point." The natural inference
was that it was to be applied in that condition. If applied
at such temperature, there was evidence that it would be
destructive to the leather. But the judge refused to instruct
the jury that the patent was void for want of utility, if they
believed this evidence, except with a modification, which
really left the construction of the specification in the patent
to the jury.
We insist (under the third and fourth requests) that the
specification in the patent either required the liquor to be
applied at or near boiling-heat, or else utterly failed to
specify at what heat it should be applied, and that for this
reason the patent was void in respect to the application of
heat.1
5th request. The court erred in refusing to charge as here
requested, with reference to the patentability of the addition
to the fat liquor of the other ingredients mentioned in the
specifications, and in modifying the request by adding thereto
* Moffitt r. Gnar, 1 Fisher, 613.

t Act of 1836, 15; Act of 1839, 7 ; 16 Stat. at Large, 208, 1 61.
* Tyler v. Boston, 7 Wallace, 327.

KLEIN V. RUSSELL.

,[Sup. Ot.

Argument against the reissue.

the words "or other like purposes." The "purposes" of
the process are clearly set forth in the patent. They were
to remove the hardness and stiffhess of bark-tanned skins,
The evidence was that the other ingredients named in the
patent did not change the properties of "fat liquor," which
is simply oil cut with alkali.
The defendant was entitled to a charge that if the ingredients named when added did not change the properties
of fat liquor, or its effect or usefulness, when applied to the
purposes mentioned in the patent or specification, such addition
was not patentable. The words "or other like purposes,"
added by the court, left the jury to conjecture that, for some
other purpose than making leather soft and pliable, the addition of these ingredients might change the effect of the
fat liquor and be patentable.
6th request. The court erred in refusing to charge that the
process of preparing leather by means of a compound, as
claimed by plaintiff, was not patentable, because the proportions were not fixed, but were indefinite and uncertain, and
may be waived or omitted by the terms of the patent.
By referring to the specification in the patent, it will be
seen that this request should have been complied with. "It
is preferred to use the same in connection with other ingredients." Then after giving certain proportions, it goes on
to say, "but of course such quantity may be more or less
varied, as may also the proportions of the ingredients, and
the Venetian red or other coloring matter, be modified or
omitted as desired." In other words, everything was left to
the taste and fancy of the user, who was at liberty, under
this patent, to use any or all these ingredients in such proportions or manner as he pleased, or to omit them altogether.
The description of the pretended "compound" was tco
vague and uncertain to sustain a patent.*
7th request. The court erred in refusing to charge the jury
that if fat liquor had been used substantially in the manner
* Tyler v. Boston, 7 Wallace, 327; Wood v. Underhill, 5 Howard, 1;
Parker v. Stiles, 5 McLean, 54.

Oct. 1873.]

KLEIIN V.

RUSSELL.

Argument against the reissue.

specified in the plaintiff's patent, for the purpose of rendering any kind of leather soft and supple, more than two years
before plaintiff applied for a patent, the plaintiff below could
not recover, even though it had not been so used in dressing
bark-tanned lamb or sheep skins.
This request was conceded by the learned judge to be correct iu principle, so far as it referred to the use of the process for the purpose of softening any leather, but he refused
to charge that such prior use for two years before the plaintiff below appliedfor his patent was sufficient.
The fact that the chemical combination of fat liquor with
bark-tanned skins may be different from its combination
with oil-dressed leather, as asserted by Dr. Porter, does not
change the rule, since he states, and all agree, that the general effect is the same upon all skins or leather, namely, to
make them soft and pliable.
9th request. The court erred in refusing to charge, when
requested, that if anything claimed by the plaintiff in his
pateit as new was, in fact, old, the entire patent was void,
and the plaintiff could not recover.
10th request. The court below erred in refusing to charge
the jury that the patent could not be sustained in the matter
of the mere degree of heat, if the principle of applying heat
to any extent was an old process.
Witnesses had testified that they had used warm fat liquor
for the purpose mentioned in the patent, but none testified
to having heated it "to or near the boiling-point," as recommended in the specification of the patent. The request was,
in effect, that the raising the heat of the fat liquor to the
boiling-point did not of itself constitute an invention which
was the subject of a patent, and the defendant below was
entitled to this instruction.*
IL. The reasons for our exceptions to evidence appear in
the exceptions themselves.
* Brooks v. Bicknell, 3 McLean, 262; McCormick v. Manny, 6 Id. 557
Everson v. Ricard, Law's Digest, 181.

K1LEIN V. RUSSELL.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument in support of the reissue.

Mr. H. E. Smith, contra:
I. The point that the reissue is not for the same invention is not
well taken.
1. It was not made in the court below, and is not, therefore, now available to the plaintiff in error. The general
request to direct a verdict for defendant did not call the
attention of the court to this point. The Supreme Court
will not express an opinion upon a matter of defense not
brought to the consideration of the court below.*
2. The original specification did embrace warm fat liquor
as the principal thing in his invention; but it was defective
in omitting to make the proper claim.
8. Variations from the description in the original specification do not necessarily imply that the reissue is for a new
or different invention, for the right to surrender and obtain
a new patent is given for the purpose of enabling the patentee to give a more perfect description, and cover what he
has invented; and the second necessarily varies from the
first.
And the defect entitling the patentee to a reissue may be
in the specification or claim, or both.t
4. A reissued patent is presumed to be for the same invention as that included in the original patent. But such
inference or presumption in respect to identity is open to be
contradicted by proper evidence, which should be submitted
to the jury.1
The argument of the plaintiff in error on his exceptions
to the judge's refusal to direct a verdict for the defendant
raises the question ofThU construction of the patent. But if any error occurred in
the construction of the patent in the court below, it was in
favor of the plaintiff in error, and he did not except to it or
ask a different construction. He cannot now be heard to
* Bell v. Bruen, 1 Howard, 169.

t O'Reilly v. Morse, 15 Howard, 112; Battin v. Taggert, 17 Id. 84; Carver v. Braintree Manufacturing Co., 2 Story, 439, 440.
T: Stimpson v. Westchester Railroad, 4 Howard, 404; Allen v. Blunt, 2
Woodbury & MkIinot, 139.

Oct. 1873.]

KLEIN V. RUSSELL.
Argument in support of the reissue.

complain. Still, as in the litigations under this patent, there
has occurred a disagreement among the judges in the Circuit
Court, in regard to the construction of the specification in
anl important particular, and as there are other suits pending
which involve the same question, it is desirable to have al
authoritative construction, and we consent to argue the
question.
Our construction is that the patent covers two things: 1.

A novel treatment of bark-tanned sheep or lamb skins, by
heated fat liquor, substantially as described in the specification; and 2, the treatment of such skins with a heated compound, composed and applied substantially as specified.
The other construction is the one given by the court below
and now adopted by the plaintiff in error, that the specification embraces two claims:
1. The use of fat liquor, pure and simple, as it comes
from the mills, substantially as described in the specification; and2. The compound substantially as described, and that the
heating of the liquor is an essential portion of the process
under this claim.
The point of difference is, the heating of the fat liquor
under the first claim, when it is used without the other ingredients; the patentee asserting that by a fair construction
of the patent, it covers only heated fat liquor, while on the
other side it is asserted that it covers the use of cold fat
liquor as it comes from the mills.
The patent should receive the construction given to it by
the patentee, for the following, among other reasons:
1. If it will bear either construction, it should receive the
one most favorable to the patentee; that which will be most
likely to protect the invention. The intention of the patentee
is to be sought in giving construction to the language; and
for this purpose particular phrases must not be singled out,
but the whole specification and claim must be taken together.* 2. If it appear with reasonable certainty, either
Whitney v. Emmett, Baldwin, 303, 315; Ames v. Howard, 1 Sumner,
482, 485 ; Page v. Ferry, 1 Fisher, 298, 302.

KLEIN v. R USSELL.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument in support of the reissue.

from the words used or by necessary implication, in what
the invention consists, it will be adjudged sufficient, and the
rights of the patentee will be protected, however imperfectly
or inartificially-he may have expressed himself.
In construing the claim it is proper to look at the origina..
patent, and in the original specification it is clear that the
patentee intended the use of fat liquor in a warm state only.*
Now a reissue must be for the same invention. It is not to
be presumed that the patentee intended to embrace in the
reissue what he had not invented or described in the original, and thus destroy his patent.
The power and duty of granting a new patent for the
original invention, upon a surrender of the old, is intrusted
to the Commissioner of Patents, and his decision is not reexaminable by the courts, unless it is apparent upon the face
of the patent that he has exceeded his authority, or unless
there is a clear repugnancy between the old and the new
patent, or unless the new has been obtained by fraud or collusion between the commissioner and the patentee. The
presumption upon all these points is in favor of the regularity and validity of the reissue.t
By the well-settled rules of construction already referred
to in this discussion, the court will not give a construction
that will create a repugnancy between the old and the new,
and thus invalidate the patent, if the language of the specification and claim, taken together, and in connection with
such extraneous facts as may aid in disclosing the intention
of the patentee, will admit of another construction.
Independently of all this, the language and structure of
the specification require the construction set up by the
patentee.
The specification commences by stating in what the invention consists, in these words: "A novel treatment of what
is known 'as bark-tanned lamb or sheep skins,' which in
Johnson v. Root, 1 Fisher, 351, 355.
t Potter v. Holland, 4 Blatchford, 238, 242; Battin v. Taggert, 17 How
ard, 74, 84; O'Reilly v. TMorse, 15 Id. 62, 112; Hussey v. McCormick, 1
Fisher, 509, 515.

Oct. 1873.]

O .LEINV. IRUSSELL.
Argument in support of the reissue.

the bark-tanned state is too hard and stiff for glove-making,
but when subjected to this treatment is rendered suitable
for gloves." Stated generally, then, the invention consists
of a novel treatment of a certain kind of skin, a process or processes; and the manner and character of this treatment or
process is to be thereinafter described.
The specification then proceeds to describe the novel treatment or process constituting the invention, and begins by
saying that the "principal feature" of the invention consists
of the employment of fat liquor. It does not say that the
whole invention, or the whole of any or either claim consists
in the mere employment of fat liquor; but that this is a
principal feature. The expression "principal feature" implies that there are other features. It is pertinent to observe
also, in view of certain criticisms upon the specification to
be noticed hereafter, that fat liquor as the principalfeature,
applies to the compound or second claim as well and as fully
as to the first claim. As, therefore, the fat liquor is to be
heated when used in the compound, no inference against its
heating when used alone can be legitimately drawn from
the statement that the employment of fat liquor constitutes
the principal feature of the invention. If it intends heated
fat liquor in one case, as is conceded, it must in the other
also.
The specification then goes on to describe further the
"novel treatment," and the other features of the invention,
and says: "In treating leather," that is, the leather beforementioned, "bark-tanned lamb or sheep skins," "with fat
liquor, it is desirable to heat the latter to or near the boilingpoint, and it is preferred to use the same," i. e., fat liquor
heated, "i u connection with other ingredients." This plainly
says, "in treating the leather with fat liquor," not with the
compound, "it is desirable to heat the latter," i. e., the fat
liquor alone, "to or near the boiling-point." It will be observed that the heating of the liquor is mentioned before a
word is said about other ingredients; and there can be no
doubt that the patentee intended the heating of the fat liquor
as a part of his process.

KLEIN V. RUSSELL.

[Sup. Ca.

Argument in support of the reissue.

In prescribing the compound, the specification says:
"There may be added to each ten gallons of such heated fat
Yiquor," thus showing clearly that the patentee intended
heated fat liquor, both when used alone and as the base of
the compound.
Afterwards, in speaking of the treatment of the skin, the
specification says: "The same should be well dipped in or
saturated with the fat liquor, or compound of which the fat
liquor is the base."
While this includes the treatment of the skins with the
fat liquor alone, and also with the compound, of which heated
fat liquor is the base, it does not repeat the word "heated;"
hence the omission of the word "heated" when applied to
the immersion of skins in the fat liquor alone, does not afford
a presumption that the patentee did not intend healed fat
liquor under the first claim. On the contrary, it affords a
strong presumption of the reverse.
The construction asked by the patentee is confirmed by
reference to the formal claim at the close of the specification.
Read in connection with and construed in the light of the
whole specification, it is twofold: 1. "The employment of
fat liquor in the treatment of leather, substantially as specified," that is to say, heated and applied to the skin substantially as specified. 2. The process, "substantially as herein
described, of treating bark-tanned lamb or sheep skins, by
means of a compound composed and applied essentially as
specified," that is to say, a heated compound composed and
applied essentially and substantially as specified.
It is said that the words "desirable" and "preferred" in
the specification are used to express the same idea, and each
used in contrast with essential or necessary. This is a mistake.
The word "desirable" applies to the use of the fat liquor,
whether alone or in the compound, and refers to the degree
of heat and not to thefact of heating. The patentee does not
mean to say that it is not essential or necessary to heat the fat
Aquor, but that it is not essential to heat it up to or near the
boiling-point. The language is not the most apt that might
nave been employed to express the intention, but reasonably

Oct. 1873.]

]'KLEIN

v.

RUSSELL.

Argument in support of the reissue.

plain nevertheless. The draughtsman evidently assumed
the fact of heating, and sought to describe the temperature
without limiting it to an exact degree. This view is
strengthened by reference to the original specification,
where the expression is "warm the same by heating to or near
the boiling-point." Here there is no question about the fact of
heating being essential; and the formula, substantially, was
transferred to the reissued specification and there applied to
both claims. If, friom tLe language employed, there is no
question about the necessity of heating under the old patent,
and none when applied to the compound under the new,
why should the same language receive a different construetion when applied to fat liquor alone?
The word "preferred" applies to the compound, and means
simply that the inventor prefers it to the use of the heated
fat liquor alone, and hence he describes and patents it.
This word may be said to be used in contrast with essential
or necessary, in reference to producing the desired result;
that is to say, such result may be produced by the heated
fat liquor alone, and that is claimed and patented; but the
inventor prefers the compound, and that is claimed and
patented also.
II. As to the requests for instructions.
1. The first request does not correctly or fully describe
the invention. The employment of fat liquor, merely, is
not the whole of the invention. It is the employment of
fat liquor in the condition and manner described in the specification. The request erroneously assumes that a knowledge
by others of the thing patented, more than two years before
applicationfor the patent, renders it void. If a prayer for instruction be not correct in its very terms, it is not error to
refuse it. The charge to the jury covered the ground of
this request, and embraced all the defendant below had a
right to ask upon the point involved.
2. The second request was properly refused, and the
modification was correct. The court had already charged
on this point, and the charge and the modification of the re-

XLEIN V.

RUSSELL.

[Sup. Ct

Argument in support of the reissue.

quest under consideration, correctly present the law applicable, and were sufficiently favorable to the defendant below.
Whether the specification is sufficient, within this rule of
law, is a question of fact for the jury; and in the case at
bar it was properly submitted to the jury.*
3. The refusal to comply with the third request was correct, for the reasons given in considering the second request,
and also on grounds hereafter stated in considering the sixth
request.
4. It would have been erroneous to charge as requested
by the fourth request without the modification. The question here involved is substantially the same as that spoken
of in considering the last two requests, and also hereinafter
spoken of in considering the sixth request.
5. In reply to the fifth request, the charge was in accordance with the request except in the addition of the words,
"or to other like purposes." If the request without this
addition was proper as far as it went, the addition was
proper, unless the mere purpose or applicationof a contrivance
or process is patentable, which will not be asserted. If the
addition was right, the request without it was wrong. The
patent was primd facie evidence of utility, and there was no
conflicting evidence on this point. Hence, the request involved only an abstract question.
6. The sixth request presents one question only: "Is this
claim void for uncertainty, because the specification does
not prescribe exact and unvarying proportions in the ingredients of the compound?"
The formula given in the specification gives fixed and
certain proportions in the compound, as a general rule. And
the specification goes on to say that the proportions of the
ingredients may be more or less varied, and the Venetian
red or other coloring matter be modified or omitted, as desired. It evidently does not mean that all the ingredients
may be omitted; for this part of the specification is treating
* Judson v. Moore, 1 Fisher, 544,547; Davis v. Palmer, 2 Brockenbrough,
298, 308; Wood v. Underhill, 5 Howard, 1, 4; Battin v. Taggert, 17 Id.
1, 85.

Oct 1873.]

O LEIN

V. RUSSELL.

Argument in support of the reissue.

of the compound, and if all the ingredients were omitted it
would be no compound, but fat liquor, simply. The other
ingredients may be varied, but the Venetian red or other
ingredients may be omitted, if desired. A variety of colors
are required in glove leather, and the use or omission of the
coloring matter, as well as the kind to be used, would, it is
obvious, depend upon the color of the leather desired in a
particular case; hence, the impracticability of prescribing
in the patent any exact and invariable rule for its use. If
the patent fixed the exact and invariable proportions of the
other ingredients, it would enable any one to produce the
same results, and use the invention with impunity by a
slight variation of the proportions, not affecting essentially
the character of the compound. In this, as in other respects, the specification is addressed to persons "skilled
in the art or science to which the invention appertains."
Where the patentee gives a certain proportion as a general
rule, which on the face of the specification seems generally
applicable, the patent will be valid, though some small differences may be occasionally required.*
7. The seventh request referred to a prior use more than
two years before plaintiff's application for a patent, and the
court properly refused so to charge. The defendant then
modified his request, and the court charged substantially as
requested.
8. The eighth request is not insisted on in argument. It
was purely abstract and speculative. The court was not
bound to notice it at all, though it did notice it, and in a
way which so far as the defendant is concerned, is unexceptionable.
9. The charge contains just what the ninth request requested. The judge was not bound to repeat himself.
10. The tenth request was to charge "that the patent could
not be sustained in the matter of the mere degree of heat, if
the principle of applying heat to any extent was an old process." So far as this point involves the question of novelty,
* Wood v. Underhill, 5 Howard, 1; Ryan v. Goodwin, 3 Sumner, 514.

462

XLEIN V. RUSSELL.

[Sup. Ot.

Argument in support of the reissue.

the charge had fully covered the ground, and in accordance
with the request. If it was intended by the request to elicit
a ruling that a patent could not be sustained for a mere degree
of heat, then it was, in that particular, abstract and speculative. The specification does not fix any exact degree of
heat, and the plaintiff below did not ask to have his patent
sustained on that ground.
III. Exceptions to evidence.
The question to Uriel Case was proper as introductory to
the witness's statements at the interview, and as proof of
the fact elicited by his further cross-examination, that when
charged with an infringement of the patent, he made no
pretence of prior knowledge, but claimed "a way of his
own," &c., or, in other words, that he did not then infringe.
The question to Place was proper also, its object, obviously, having been to show a combination among the
defendants' witnesses, including the witness under examination, to defeat the patent and share the expense, thus
affecting their credibility.
The objection that it was not the best evidence is untenable. The question was upon a collateral matter arising
incidentally in the progress of the trial, affecting merely the
credit of the witness.
The witness did not know who signed the paper, and the
evidence complained of being, therefore, harmless, error cannot be predicated of its admission.
On the state of the case the question to Dr. Porter was
proper also, for while it is true that the mere purpose or
effect of a process is not patentable, it is equally true that
the effect or result produced is always proper to be considered when a patent is on trial. Indeed, it is often most
important in determining the questions of novelty and
utility. The result, if greatly more beneficial than that produced by old contrivances, reflects back and tends to char-.
acterize the importance of the change. Our question to Dr.
Porter tended to solve the question raised by the defendant's evidence, whether or not the patented process was or

Oct. 1873.]

O .LEINv.

RUSSELL.

Opinion of the court.

was not the application of an old principle or process to a
new and analogous use. However, Dr. Porter's answer, if
it was not harmless in itself, became harmless under the
charge of the court in reply to the defendant's request.
Mr. Justice SWAYKE delivered the opinion of the court.
The action was for the infringement of a reissued patent.
The plaintiff in error was the defendant in the court below.
A verdict and judgment were rendered against him. In
the progress of the trial he took numerous exceptions. We
have considered them, and will proceed to dispose of the
case.
There was no error in the refusal of the court to direct a
verdict for the defendant. The evidence is fully set out in
the record. It was well remarked by the circuit judge, in
deciding the motion for a new trial, that "the conflict of evidence upon the questions of fact is very great, and made it a
very proper case for submission to the jury." Where it is
entirely clear that the plaintiff cannot recover, it is proper
to give such a direction, but not otherwise.
It is insisted, in this connection, that the reissue is void,
because it was not for the same invention as the original
patent.
This point does not appear to have been taken in the
court below, and, therefore, cannot be made here. No instrnction was asked or given touching the subject. It is to
be presumed, until the contrary is made to appear, that the
commissioner did his duty correctly in granting the reissued
patent.

The question put to Uriel Case, and his answer, were
within the proper limits of a cross-examination.*
The question to Place was proper, and his answer was not
objected to. His answer as to his connection with the paper
to which he referred also passed without objection. But it
is insisted that it was error to require him to state its con* Johnston v. Jones, 1 Plack, 210.

"KLEIN V. RUSSELL.

[Sup. Or.

Opinion of the court.

tents, no notice to produce it having been given. To this
there are two answers: It was an incidental and collateral
matter drawn out to test the temper and credibility of the
witness. It in no wise affected the merits of the controversy
between the parties. The witness stated that he did not
know who signed the paper. The contents could not, therefore, have operated to the injury of the defendant.
The question to Porter involved the novelty, utility, and
modus operandi of the alleged invention of the plaintiff; and
the answer was competent evidence.
Elaborate instructions covering the entire case were given
to the jury. None of them were excepted to by the defendant.
Numerous instructions were asked by his counsel. An
exception was taken in relation to each one of them, and is
assigned for error.
We shall refer to them as they are numbered in the record.
I. That the patent is for "the treatment of bark-tanned
sheep and lamb skins, by the employment of fat liquor, and
if the jury believe such treatment was known to others more
than two years before the plaintiff applied for his patent, his
patent is void." This instruction was properly refused. It
stated inaccurately the rule of law which it involved. A patent relates back, where the question of novelty is in issue,
to the date of the invention, and not to the time of the application for its issue. The jury had already been sufficiently
instructed upon the subject. The instruction assumes that
the reissue was for the use of fat liquor, without reference
to the point whether it were hot or cold. This renders it
necessary to construe the patent with a view to the solution
of that question.
The original specification declared that the invention consisted "in a novel treatment of bark-tanned lamb or sheep
skins." The patentee said: "The process I adopt, and
which constitutes my invention, is as follows: I take of ' fat
liquor,' obtained in scouring deerskins after tanning in oil,
say ten gallons, and warm the same to or near the boilingpoint. I then add to such heated fat liquor eight ounces of

Oct. 1873.]

KLEIN V. RUSSELL.

465

Opinion of the court.

sat soda, twelve ounces of common salt, one pint of soft soap,
and four ounces of Venetian red, and stir and mix these several ingredients with the fat liquor." The claim is as follows:
"Vhat is here claimed, and desired to be secured by letterspatent, is the process substantially as herein described of
treating bark-tanned lamb or sheep skins by means of a compound, and applied essentially as specified."
With this specification and claim, it was apprehended that
the patent did not cover the use of heated fat liquor alonewhich the patentee claimed as a part of his invention-but
that it would be held to cover the use of such heated liquor
only in combination with the ingredients specified. If so,
the onission of any one, or all, of the ingredients would
have given immunity to an infringer. To remedy this dethe specification in that
fect the reissue was procured. In,
case the patentee says: "My invention consists in a novel
treatment of what is known as bark-tanned lamb or sheep
skin."
"The principal feature of my invention consists in the
employment of what is known amongst tanners as fat liquor,
which is ordinarily obtained by scouring deerskins, after
tanning in oil, but which, when it is not convenient to obtain in this manner, may be produced as a liquor having the
same character-obtained by the cutting of oil with a suitable alkali. In treating leather with the 'fat liquor,' it is
desirable to heat the liquor to or near the boiling-point, and
it is preferred to use the same in connection with other ingredients. Thus, for instance, there may be added to each
ten gallons of such heated fat liquor, eight ounces sal soda,
twelve ounces common salt, one pint of soft soap, or an
equivalent quantity of hard soap, four ounces of Venetian
red; such ingredients to be well stirred and mixed with the
flat liquor."
The claims are as follows:
"1. The employment of fat liquor in the treatment of
leather, substantially as specified.
"2. The process, substantially as herein described, of
treating bark-tanned lamb or sheep skins by means of a
VOL. XIX.

30

1 66

K-LEIN

v). R USSELL.

[Sup. Ct,

Opinion of the court.

compound composed and applied essentially as specified."
The mode of application prescribed in both specifications is
the same.
The first claim, it has been argued, is for the use of fat
liquor generally, hot or cold. If it be for the former only,
the patent may be valid; while, if for the latter, it may be
too broad, and, therefore, void.
The counsel for the patentee insists that the claim is limited to fat liquor in a heated state. The subject is to be examined in the light of both specifications and of both sets
of claims. The court should proceed in a liberal spirit, so
as to sustain the patent and the construction claimed by the
patentee himself, if this can be done consistehtly with the
language which he has employed.
The original specification and claim were clearly confined
to heated fat liquor. The law* required that the reissue
should be for the same invention as the original patent. It
is to be presumed the commissioner did his duty. If the
reissue be for fat liquor generally, it is for a thing then
patented for the first time, and the patent involves a violation of the law.
The second specification says: "The principal feature of
the invention is the employment of ' fat liquor.' " It then
proceeds to direct how the liquor shall be prepared. In
doing this it is said "it is desirable to heat the liquor to or
near the boiling-point."
This is the foundation of the first claim, which is for "the
employment of fat liquor in the treatment of leather, sub.
stantially as specified." The heated condition of the liquor is
before distinctly specified, and if it be applied in any other
state its condition will not be as specified, either exactly or
substantially. After the words "boiling-point," the specification proceeds: "And it is preferred to use the same in
connection with other ingredients. Thus, for instance, there
may be added to each ten gallons of such heated fat liquor,"
&c. The ingredients are then named. This is the ground
* Act of 1836,

13, 5 Stat. at Large, 122.

Oct. 1873.]

O LEIN V. RUSSELL.
Opinion of the court.

of the second claim, to wit: "The process substantially as
herein described of treating bark-tanned lamb or sheep
skins by means of a compound composed and applied essentially as specified." Here heated fat liquor is clearly one of
the constituents of the compound. A chemist proved on
the trial that heat was an element essential, in a large degree, to the efficacy and utility of both the simple liquor
and the compound, when so applied. We think the better
opinion is, that the first claim was intended to cover, and
does cover, only the use of heated liquor.
The first instruction might well have been refused for the
reason, also, that it was too broad as to this point.
II. The next prayer and the action of the court are thus
set forth in the bill of exceptions:
"2. The defendant's counsel also requested the said judge
to charge that the proper construction of the patent is that
the fat liquor should be applied at or near the boiling-point,
and if the jury believe that the application of fat liquor at
such a temperature to leather is injurious and pernicious,
the patent is void for want of utility, and the defendant entitled to a verdict; but the said judge refused so to charge
the jury, but modified the said request and instructed the
jury that the proper construction of the second claim of the
patent, so far as it relates to the application of heat, is that
the compound, composed of fat liquor and the other ingredients required, should be applied at or near the boilingpoint, under the common knowledge of persons skilled in
the art of treating this leather, to procure softness and pliability, would make them wait until it was partially cooled
before its application, and if the jury believe that the application of fat liquor at such a temperature to leather as is required by the specification under this qualification is injurious and pernicious, the patent is void for want of utility,
and the defendant entitled to a verdict; and the counsel for
defendant then and there duly excepted."
We think this ruling of the court was correct.
III and IV. These exceptions are sufficiently answered by
what was said by the Circuit Court as to the second prayer.

THE MAYOR V. RAY.

[Sup. Ct.

Syllabus.

V. This instruction was properly modified. The state of
the evidence hardly justified the judge in giving any instruction upon the subject to which it related.
The remaining five exceptions may be grouped and disposed of together. Neither of them requires any special remark.
We are satisfied with the rulings of the learned judge
who tried the case as to each and all of them.
We find nothing in the recNrd of which the plaintiff in
error has a right to complain.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

Dissenting, Justices FIELD and HUNT.

TiE MAYOR V. RAY.
A city corporation, the charter of which gave to it the usual powers formerly
given to such corporations, but which did not give to it the power to
borrow money, being, and, for some time having been, pecuniarily embarrassed, issued its checks, in form negotiable, and drawn by the mayor
and recorder of the city on the city treasurer. The checks were presented to the city treasurer and by him indorsed with his name and the
date of his indorsement; itbeing the practice of that officer, in the then
embarrassments of the city, thus to indorse checks when the city was
not in funds to pay them, in order that the checks might thereafter draw
interest; as it was understood that they would do. The checks were
then taken by the holder, and, according to a then prevalent custom to
pay them for taxes, were paid to the treasurer of the board of education
of the city in discharge of school taxes. This officer (again, according
to a then prevalent custom) sold them to A. (selling them for eighty
cents on the dollar), and with the money discharged the salaries due by
the city to the teachers of its public schools.
On suit by A. against the city, the court below excluded evidence tending
to show fraud and want of consideration, and authority to make them, in
the issue of the notes ; and held that under its charter the city could issue
promissory notes, and that if signed by the proper officers and given for
a goo4 ccnsideration, they would be legal and obligatory; that a usage
to reissue such securities was good, and that though upon their face
overdue they were payable on demand, and not to be deemed dishonored

