SAWYER V. PRICKETT AND WIFE.

[Sup. Ct.

Syllabus.

that "the confirmation to the representatives of Auguste
Conde" enured to hs heirs. In the case before us, Butler
was living at the time of the confirmation. He and Bankston were before the commissioners. Bankston produced his
contract. It does not appear that Butler made any objection to his claim, and the commissioners adjudged iii his
favor. The omission of Butler's name in the patent certificate, under the circumstances, closed the door finally against
any claim thereafter on his part touching the property by
virtue of his original title. The commissioners must have
found that Bankston had done all that he was bound to do
by his contract. An act done by a public officer which presupposes another act is presumptive proof of the latter.*
The certificate issued by the recorder of land titles under
the act of 1815, the location of that certificate and the patent,
enured to Bankston and his legal representatives.t No
other representative of Butler, whether hereditary or by
contract, has any right, legal or equitable, to the premnises.
The testimony in the record is conclusive upon the subject.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

SAWYER V. PRICKETT AND 'WIFE.

A. farmer and his wife on the line of a proposed country railroad, subscribed
to stock in the road and mortgaged their farm, upon representations
made to them by agents of the road and others, in a time of excitement
got up at public meetings, that the road would prove a most lucrative
investment of money, a very profitable thing to the neighborhood, and
would enable farmers to sell the products (f their farrm at a large advance
over existing prices. The making (,fthe road was begun, and after a
good deal of money had been laid out in grading, &c, the further making
of it was absolutely stopped for want of funds, and it remained unmade.
*

Bank of the United States v. Dandridg,, 12 Wheaton, 70; Lessee of

Ward v. Barrows, 2 Ohio State, 242.
j- Bissell v. Penro. e, 8 Howard, 338; Hogan v.Page, 2 Wallace, 605; Papin
v. Massey, 27 Missouri, 44.5; Boone v MIoore, 14 1d. 420; Carpenter v. Rannells, 45 Id. 591; Page v. Hill, 11 Id. 149.

Oct. 1873.]

SAWYER V. PRICKETT AND WIFE.
Statement of the case.

The mortgage thus got was assigned to a dirictor of the road who was a
large crcditor of the road (then much embarrassed for money). when
the mortgage was given.
1teld, on a bill by him to foreclose, that he was to be taken as tin innocent
holder for value; and that on the distinction recognized by the law between a representation of existing facts, and a representation of fcitts
yet to come into existence-the distinction between "promissory tatements based upon general knowledge, information, and judgment, and
those representations which, from knowledge peculiarly his own, a party
may certainly know will prove to be true or false-he was entitled to a
decree.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court for the Northern District
of Illinois.
Ephraim Sawyer filed a bill in the court below against
Henry Prickett and wife, to foreclose a mortgage given by
them, on the 1st of September, 1857, to the Fox River Valley Railroad Company, to secure the payment of a note for
$2000 at ten years fi'om its date, and by the company assigned to him, the complainant. The answer set tip as a
defence, that at the date mentioned Prickett gave the note
described to secure the payment of a subscription to the
stock of the railroad company mentioned, and that this subscription was obtained by fraud and deceit; and so that the
note and the mortgage were void.
The fraud and deceit alleged consisted in the following
matters which the answer stated, to wit, that two persons,
one Conover and a certain W. G. Parsons, of Milwaukee,
in Wisconsin, as agents of the company, and John Sibley
and W. A. McConnell, residenits of Richmond, in Illinois,
caused it to be understood that a railroad had been incorporated to extend from Richmonid to Milwaukee aforesaid,
and "that the said parties above named, for the purpose of
inducing the property-owners in Richmond and its vicinity
to take an interest in the road, and to subscribe for the
stock of the company, resorted to fraudulent and deceitful
artifices and representations; that they caused a subscription-book for the taking of subscriptions to the stock to
be prepared and opened at Richmond; that they caused
McConnell, a man of large meanis, and one in whom the

SAWYER V.

PRICKETT AND

WIFE.

[Sup. ot,

Statement of the case.

citizens of Richmond and its vicinity htad confidence 19 a
man of integrity and good judgment, and of prudent and
sagacious management of business, to head such subscription list, as a subscriber to the stock, to the amount of
$1500; that for the same fraudulent purpose they caused
one John Woodell, a citizen of Richmond, and a man at
that time of considerable means and of good business reputation, to appear in the subscription list as a subscriber to
the stock to the amount of $1000, and, also for the same
purpose, caused it to be represented and believed among the
residents of Richmond and its vicinity that the said John
Sibley (already mentioned), a person at that time of means
and large influence in that community, and of integrity, had
subscribed largely to the stock; and further, that the railroad, when constructed, would greatly enhance the real
estate and other property in Rithmond and its vicinity by
fuIrnishiln- a market in Milwaukee for the farm products
raised in the vicinity of Richmond, and that the said market,
especially for the sale of wheat, would be much more advantageous to the firming community of Richmond than the
market which they now had at Chicago.
That the said parties publicly represented, and caused it
to be believed by the residents and property-owners of Richmond and its vicinity, that the company would pay large
dividends upon its stock; that farmers and parties owning
real estate could become the owners of so much of the stock
as they should subscribe for, by giving their notes for the
amount so subscribed to the company on long time and
drawing interest at 8 per cent. per annum, and securing the
notes by mortgage upon their farms or other real estate;
that the company would promptly pay all the interest upon
said notes so given, as the same should mature, out of the
dividends that would from time to time be declared upon
the stock of the. company, and that the balance of the (ividends, after the payment of the interest, would be amply
sufficient to pay the .principal of the notes when the same
should become due.
That, in this manner and by these means, the said parties

Oct. 1873.]

SAWYER V. PRICKETT AND WIFE.

149

Statement of the case.

aroused and caused a great interest and unusual excitement
among the citizens, residents, and property-holders of Richniond and its vicinity regarding the railroad, and that large
numbers of them, relying upon the flattering representations made, as aforesaid, were prevailed upon to subscribe
to the stock of the company; that the defendant was among
those who, by the means, in the manner, and upon the representations made, as aforesaid, became and was interested
in said railroad project; and that after he had thus become
informed thereof, and of the general features of the railroad
project, as hereinbefore set fortb, and had become greatly
excited on account thereof, a short time prior to the said
1st of September, A. D. 1857, the said Conover and Sibley
represented to him that the company was duly incorporated
and fully organized, and that it would construct and equip
the road and have the same in full and complete operation
within one year from the date last aforesaid; that the railroad, when constructed, would greatly enhance the value of
the defendant's real estate, by furnishing better market facilities, as hereinbefire stated; that the defendant would
not be required to pay any money for the stock so subscribed
for by him, but that the company would take in lieu of such
money his note, payable in ten years from (late, with interest thereon at 8 per cent. per annum, secured by a mortgage
of the land owned by him; that the raih'oad would earn
large dividends, and that the company would pay the interest upon the note as it should mature, and that, with the
excess of dividends, the company would be amply able to
pay the principal of the note when it should become due.
The answer averred also that the defendant reposed confidence in these flattering statements, and relying upon the
promise given, subscribed for $2000 of the capital stock of
the said company, and gave the note and mortgage in suit
to secure the payment of the same.
It further averred that the Fox River Valley Railroad
Company was never incorporated; that no part of it had
ever been built; that it had been given up and abandoned;
that McOonnell, Woodell, and Sibley were not subscribers

SAWYER v. PmRICKiTT

AND WIFE.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

for stock as was represented, or that their subscriptions
were upon a secret agreement that they should stand upon
the books for larger sums than were actually subscribed by
them; that McConnell, appearing as a snbscriber for $1500,
should only be bound for $500; and that Woodell appearing
as a subscriber for $1000 should only be bound for $500;
and that Sibley never subscribed for any amount of stock,
and never gave his note and mortgage as was represented.
It further averred that these misrepresentations were made
with an intent to defraud; that the complainant was not a
bon6 fide holder of the note and mortgage, but was himself
one of the projectors and managers of the fraudulent contrivance, and well knew all of the facts alleged before he
became the owner of the instruments.
Replication being made, testimony was taken. Sawyer,
Prickett, McConnell, Sibley, and Woodell were all examined as witnesses.
From the testimony the facts of the case appeared to be
thus:
The town of lRichmond was a small place, close to the
north line of Illinois, and between Milwaukee on the north
of it (about fifty miles off), and Chicago, on its south, at a
greater distance. It had a railroad connection, through the
railroad of the Fox River Ra-ilroad Company of Illinois, with
Chicago, but nojpe with Milwaukee.
In this state of things the Fox River Railroad Company
of Wisconsin was incorporated in Wisconsin, to connect by a
prolongation of the Illinois road Richmond and Milwaukee;
Milwaukee being the place where the organization of the
latter company was had and the place from which its afairs
were managed.
The charter being obtained and the company organized as
early at least as 1854, efforts were put in action to build the
road. Prior to 1856, the subscriptions to the c'pital stock
coming in slowly, ready funds were short. In 1855 or 1856,
Sawyer, then a director with other directors, lent the road
money. The work was still going on. And in the autumn
of 1857-there being still stock unsubscribed for-a com

Oct. 1873.]

SAWYER V. PRICKETT AND WIFE.

151

Stat ment of the case.

mittee, on which was Conover, then a director and lately
before president of the company, and Parsons, at one time
its secretary but now its "stock agent," were appointed to
go to different villages along the line of the projected road
to procure subscriptions for the stock yet untaken. Among
other places to which they went was Richmond. Here they
got up meetings, got speakers to come and address the citizens, and publicly and privately represented the great benefit that it would be to the farming community to have the
road; that the Milwaukee market would give five cents a
bushel for wheat more than the Chicago; that stock in the
road would probably pay thirty per cent. dividend, and be a
fine investment for the farmers to make; that if they would
take stock they could take it by giving a mortgage running
ten years at eight per cent. interest, payable annually; that
the company was willing to pay the interest; that the person
giving the mortgage would not be called upon for the interest; and that if they would let the dividends of the road
remain in the company's hand, in ten years, or before, the
dividends would pay for the stock and perhaps more, and
then that the farmer would have his stock clear.
The matter was thus summed up by McConnell, one witness in the case:
"They made some very fine speeches, and told what they
would do for us if we would sign for stock; and told us a great
many things, and those statements induced the people to subscribe."
At one of these town meetings in Richmond, a committee
composed of McConnell, Sibley, and some other persons,
was appointed to solicit subscriptions.
McConnell, who was regarded as one of the most judicious men of Richmond, headed the list with a subscription
for $1500 of the stock; but he did not actually give a mortgage on his property, though he was bound to do so when
called on by the company to do it.
McConnell, Sibley, and other citizens of Richmond, then
went about at different times for a few days, while Conover
and Parsons remained at Richmond to get subscriptions.

SAWYER V. PRICKETT AND WIFE.

[Sup. Ct,

Statement of the case.

Among the farmers in the neighborhood of Richmond
was Prickett; he had already met Conover in the town.
Prickett's own account of the matter was thus:
"I own the real estate described in the bill of complaint, and
have owned it for twenty-one years; it is now occupied by me
as the residence of myself and family, and has been so occupied
by me as a residence and homestead for twenty years, and
during that time I have worked the farm.
"The first that I saw of Conover was in the village of Richmond. He and a number of citizens were together; they
thought the property would be enhanced by having a railroad;
they came to me and wanted me to subscribe. The first time
that they came to me, I told them I would not have anything
to do with it. Afterwards I did sign the subscription list, and
they represented to me that I should never have anything to
pay; that they would pay the interest, and that the dividends
upon the road would pay the principal; that at the time the
mortgage ran oat, I should be ahead. A short time after that
they came to my house, Mr. Parsons with the squire, to acknowledge the mortgage, and my wife held out about signing
it half an hour, I should think. They talked to her and told
her it would be an everlasting benefit to her to sign it, and that
the railroad would probably make thirty per cent., and it would
give her and her family $600 a year always. Mr. Sibley and
this Conover were the two principal agents in getting subscriptions, and when they came to get the mortgage this Mr. Parsons came with the squire, in order to induce us farmers to
subscribe to the subscription list. Conover said the rolling stock
-would be on in eighteen months. They got Mr. McConnell, a
leading citizen, to sign. They used every means they could to
induce persons to become subscribers to the stock. They represented that the road would be a good thing; that it would
bring us a better price for our produce, enhance the value of
our property, and that we should never have anything to pay

for it-the dividends would pay the interest, and they would
pay the principal; they held meetings and got up a great excitement. The influence was principally exerted by some of our own
citizens-Mr. McConnell, Mr. Sibley, and some others in whom
we had the utmost confidence.

We thought that if they took

stock we could take it too. -Mr. Sibley, a citizen in whom we

Oct..1878.]

SAWYER V. PRICKrET

AND WIFE.

Statement of the case.
placed the utmost confidence, said he had mortgaged his house
and lot, and that it would be a good thing; induced me in every
way to sign, and others; it is not necessary to mention their
names. Dr. Stone, Dr. Bennett, and some others. I did not
attend any of the meetings held for the purpose of obtaining
subscriptions."
The following question was asked of the complainant ol
his examination as a witness:
"Would you have become a subscriber to the capital stock of
this company except from the fact that Mr. McConnell became
a subscriber thereto, and the other parties you have named ?"
To this he answered:
"If they had not represented as they did, and if McConnell
and other leading citizens of the town had not subscribed, I
certainly should not; but the representation was an inducement
to make farmers subscribe, 'See here, you put in $2000 and
you get $600 for life. Is not that enough?"'
Cross-Examination.
"Question. You say in your direct examination ' the influence
was principally exerted by some of our own citizens, Mr.
McConnell, Mr. Sibley, and some others in whom we had the
utmost confidence.' Do you mean' by that that you were influenced by Mr. McConnell and Mr. Sibley to subscribe for this
stock ?
"Answer. By Air. Sibley, more particularly. He pictured it out
so nice to me that he had a great influence on me to take stock.
"Question. Did you see Mr. Sibley on the day on which you
subscribed for this stock ?
"Answer. No. It was some time before that; almost every
day he was exerting himself in the matter."
Parsons, it appeared, was a witness to the mortgage; the
wife executing it by a cross or mark.
McConnelU testified that in the autumn of 1857 he subscribed for $1500 worth of stock, agreeing to give a mortgage at ten years, on the plan already mentioned; but that
in the spring of 1858 the intended subscription by mortgage
was converted into a cash subscription of $1200, "a square

SAWYER V. PRICKETT AND WIFE.

[Sap. Ot.

Statement of the case.

trade," he receiving 'only twelve shares of stock; that lie
was never an agent for the company, nor received a cent
from it.
Sibley testified that at the solicitation of the town meeting
-of the citizens, and not at all of the company-he had
gone out, as a private citizen, for about a day and a half,
having then leisure, and solicited subscriptions; that at
other times when going backwards and forwards, to and
from the village, which was seldom, if he met a man who
he thought was interested, he would ask him to take stock;
that lie dropped the whole matter within three weeks; that
he had never asked Prickett to subscribe or even knew that
he had subscribed; that he had never himself subscribed
for any stock in the Fox River Railroad Company, incorporated by Wisconsin; and had never represented to Prickett
or to any one that he had; that he told to different people
(as the fact was) that he had taken $500 worth of stock in
the Fox River Railroad Company incorporated by Illinois;
and that "it was fair for them to subscribe for stock in the
Wisconsin road, as this was a continuation of the Illinois
road."
Sawyer testified that he was director of the road in 1855
and 1856, but not after the last year; that after that time
he "had been kind of out one side, and proposed to keep
away;" that in the summer of 1854 he had solicited subscriptions, and had for one day been with the agents of the
company, and saw how they got them; that "there was an
understanding that the company would pay the interest so
long as itkept the mortgages, but if transferred it would be
no defence after they passed into a third person's hands;"
that he was a subscriber to the stock, $500 cash, $5000
mortgage, which last he cashed at eighty per cent. In addition to this, that in 1855 or 1856-while he, Sawyer, was a
director-the company getting into straits for money, he,
"with some of the other directors," had lent to it their in dividual notes, which they had themselves to take up; that
they had taken them up, he, Sawyer, to the amount of
$10,00C-; that he and the other lenders then sent their

Oct. 1873.]

SAWYER V. PRICKETT AND WIFE.
Statement of the cuse.

attorney up to see what securities he could get, to do the
best he could, and that he got for all parties in common,
certain mortgages, which, like that of Prickett's, had been
given for stock; and that that of Prickett's had fallen to his,
Sawyer's, lot in the division, the claims on the company
being released.
Woodell, who it was alleged in the bill had subscribed for
$1000 worth of stock,-with an understanding that he should
really be bound to take but $500 worth, was not examined.
Hle had left Richmond, and was said to live in Iowa. One
witness said that Woodell had told him this, but there the
matter rested.
The railroad company had undoubtedly been incorporated
both in Illinois and Wisconsin. About $150,000, raised
partly from cash subscriptions, but much more largely by
farm mortgages, passed off to contractors at par, or sold to
others at eighty per cent. and like great rates of discount,
had been expended on the road. It had been graded, but
by 1859 the company formed to make it found itself so entirely without money that it could do nothing more then,
and in that year the further construction was stopped,
though the project was not entirely abandoned as desperate.
At the time when Priekett gave the mortgage, Parsons,
the stock agent, gave to him two papers, thus:
enry Priekett, obligor, has executed a note and
"Whereas,
mortg'age in fivor of the Fox River Valley Railroad Company,
a body corporate, created by the laws of the State of Wisconsin,
bearing date on the first day of September, A.D. 1857, payable
in ten years from the first day of September, A.D. 1857, for the
sum of $2000, with interest annually at the rate of 8 per centun
per annum, from and after the said first day of September, A.D.
1857. And whereas said note and mortgage have been received
in payment of twenty shares of the capital stock in said company. Now, therefore, in consideration of the relinquishment
and assignment, by the said obliger to the said company, of so
much of the dividends on said stock which he may become entitled to as shall be sufficient to pay the interest on said note,
the said company agree not to demand said interest from him,

SAWYER V. PRICKETT AND WIFE.

[Sup. Or.

Argument for the foreclosure.

and in case said note and mortgage shall be negotiated by said
company, then said company agree to save him harmless from
said interest. And the said obligor hereby assigns to the said
company so much of any dividend to which he may become entitled on said shares as shall be sufficient to pay off said interest,
and agree to pay said principal sum when the same shall become
due.
"And it is further understood that this agreement of the said
company to relinquish said interest, or to secure the said obligor
harmless therefrom, shall not be a defence on his part againstthe
payment of such interest, if said note and mortgage shall be in the
hands of a third party as security or otherwise. Nevertheless said
company will at all times punctually pay and discharge the
same.

"In witness whereof the board of directors of said company
have caused these presents to be signed by their duly constituted secretary, and the said obligor has also set his hand and
seal, on this first day of September, A.D. 1857.
"C. H. MILLER,
Secretary.
"HENRY PRICKETT."

[SEAL.]

CcSTOCK CERTIFICATE.

"To the Secretary of the Fox River Valley Railroad Company of
Wisconsin.
"SI: This is to certify that Mr. Henry Priekett, of MeHenry
County, Illinois, is entitled to a certificate of twenty shares of
the capital stock of the Fox River Valley Railroad Company,
he having executed a mortgage for the same to this company,
provided the property described in said mortgage is free from
other incumbrances.
"W.
"September 1st, 1857."

G. PARSONS,
Stock Agent.

The court below dismissed the bill for foreclosure, and
the complainant brought the case here.
Mr. M. Hf. Carpenter,for the appellant, contended that none
of the material allegations of the answer were proved, and
that most of them were disproved.
That as to what was said at public meetings, or even the

Oct. 1878.]

SAWYER V. PRICKETT AND WIFE.
Argument against the foreclosure.

flattering prospects held out at any time, however improper
they might have been, prudentially considered, to have been
made, they constituted no bar to the foreclosure prayed for;
that many of them were not made in the hearing of Prickett;
that many were not made by agents of the company; that
those which were made to him and by agents of the company
were representations of the parties' opinions, or belief, or
expectations-or mere predictions-as to the increase of
everybody's pioperty about Richmond, in case the road
should be made; matters, therefore, not in the nature of
representations of existing facts, but matters of speculation
and matters about which Prickett could form his own judgment independently of the parties expressing their anticipations.
That, however the case might stand as between Prickett
and the road, it was plain that Sawyer was an assignee bond
fide and for value of the mortgage, and that by a formal instrument, executed in writing at the same time when the
mortgage was given, Prickett had bound himself to pay it
to any such holder.
Mr. T. G. Frost, contra:
1. We concede that in an ordinary case-a case where a
man having no knowledge of facts more than another with
whom he deals-stauding in no position of superiority or confidence to him-expresses simply his anticipations-merely
proplieies-in such case the failure of the anticipations, the
error of the prophecies, cannot be set up by the other party
to relieve himself of the consequences of a contract by him
fiirly and deliberately entered into.
But that is not this ease. Here directors of a road, greatly
embarrassed-for before 1857 Sawyer, with other directors,
had been compelled to advance their private credit to the
road-these directors send out persons as their agents to
farms and country villages to get subscriptions. A "sto c k
agent" attends the party. All of the persons sent know
perfectly well that the road had been organized long berore,
and that it had no money, but was insolvent. With this

SAWYER V.

PRICKETT AND WIFE.

[Sup. Ot

Argument against the foreclosure.

knowledge they go among poor firmers; they conceal its
real condition; they intentionally produce upon the minds
of the parties of whom they solicit subscriptions and mortgages to build the road, the false impression that the company was able soon to build and would soon build the road,
and that soon it would be in full operation. This fact they
must have known was false.
Then it must be constantly kept in remembrance that the
men making these representations were sharp, intelligent
men of business, coming from Milwaukee, the seat of knowledge, thoroughly informed about everything, dealing with a
poor and confiding fhrmer and his wife, representing to him
and her that which they knew that neither of them could,
in the nature of things, have any information about.
The relation in which such men as Conover, and ParsonS,
and the other persons coming from Milwaukee stood in relation to such people as Prickett and his wife, was a confidential relation, as every relation is when a person ignorant
of facts, not highly intelligent, and in a walk of life where
everything like suspicion is disarmed, is approached by an
imposing, practiced man of business, from a city, thoroughly
conversant with the matter on which he is bent. In the
hands of such men as came after them from Milwaukee,
Prickett and his wife were in the view of equity not much
better than children. She, it seems, could not write. She
signed the mortgage by a mark.
Sibley denies that he made the representations which
Prickett swears that he did make. The matter is unimportant. Parsons is a witness to the mortgage. Ile may
have made them. If so, the company is more immediately
connected with them, for lie was its "stock agent." That
the representations were made is not doubted; that they
operated to decoy and to deceive is certain. The company
was the causa causans, the cause causarire,of them all. It
sent its agents to Richmond. Those agents got up the
meetings, and those agents originated, directed, and carried
on, directly or through instruments, all that was done.
In short, the entire scheme of" obtaining these subserip.

Oct. 1873.]

SAWYER V. PRICKETT AND WIFE.

159

Argument against the foreclosure.

tions and mortgages was an immoral proceeding, and one
which equity must look at with disgust. The concealment
of the real faets in the case, and the real condition of the
company, and of the real purpose for which the mortgages
were obtained, and the representations made (necessarily irmplying the sound fiscal condition of the company and its
ability to soon complete the road, and exciting by fraudulent
means unfounded hopes in the minds of the subscribers of
large pecuniary benefits to accrue from their subscriptions),
present a case of fraud practiced upon unwitting victims,
entirely ignorant of the real truth of the matter and of the
real purpose and design of these directors; one which, had
the subscribers known it, would have prevented these subscriptions from being taken and the mortgages from being
executed.
2. The complainant isnot an innocent holder. He had been
a long time intimately connected with the road as a director,
a creditor, and an agent. He had himself solicited subscriptions; he knew how these farm mortgages were got and
what was the expectation of the farmers giving them; he
knew it not only by what was notorious in the whole region,
but by his own direct communication, observation, and
knowledge. After 1856, indeed, he kept a "kind of out"
of the directorship -" one side"-and "proposed to keep
away." No doubt he did. He was now a large creditor and
vitally interested. He made others his instruments. He
was careful not to be a director in form; while obviously
one in reality. Finally, when the other directors have got
the mortgages, a division is inade, contractors get some, and
the money-lenders the rest. What is it to the purpose that
Sawyer did not solicit [lis mortgage? and that it was got
ie took what other
after he had stopped his solicitations.
directors got, and they doubtless took what he got. That
which is to the purpose is, that in 1855 and 1856 the road was
greatly embarrassed ; that Sawyer and other directors lent
it money ; that soon afterwards these mortgages were taken,
and that 7ow they are found in the hands of Sawyer and
these directors, Sawyer seeking to foreclose the one which

SAWYER V.

PRICKETT AND WIFE.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

came to him. The whole case is one-we repeat it-on
which a chancellor will look with reprobation.
3. There was an entire failure of considerationfor which the
note and mortgage in question were executed.
The actual consideration for which the note and mortgage
were given was in the circumstances and upon the representations that accompanied their execution-a railroad from
Richmond to Milwaukee, to be very soon fully completed
and equipped, and in running order, giving increased value
to the lands of the subscribers, and bringing in a large
annual revenue upon their stock, and reimbursing them to
the full extent of their subscriptions. Instead of this they
received absolutely nothing for their subscriptions. No
road was ever built, nor was any road really expected to be
built by the parties procuring the subscriptions. As soon
as the mortgages were got in, little or no further work was
done upon the road. The -entire enterprise was abandoned
from that time forward. The company was all the -time
hopelessly insolvent.
Mr. Justice FULT delivered the opinion of the court.
The law gives, a different effect to a representation of
existing Ahcts, from that given to a representation of facts
to come into existence. To make a filse representation
the subject of an indictment, or of an action, two things
are generally necessary, viz., that it should be a statement
likely to impose upon one exercising common prudence and
caution, and that it should be the statement of an existing
fact. A promissory statement is not, ordinarily, the subject
either of an indictment or of an action.* The law also gives
a different effect to those promissory statements based upon
general knowledge, information, and judgment, and those
representations which, from knowledge peculiarly his own
a party may certainly know, will prove to be true or false.
It becomes necessary to classify, to some extent, the representations alleged to have been made in the present case.
People v. Williams, 4 Hill, 9 ; Roscoe on Criminal Evidence, 362; Ran-'
ney v. The People, 22 New York, 413.

Oct. 1873.]

SAWYER V.

PRICKETT

AND

WIFE.

161

Opinion of the court.

1st. The facts alleged to have been represented as actually
existing, but which it is said did not exist, are the following, viz., that the Fox River Railroad Company was an organized incorporation ; that McConnell appeared as a subscriber for stock to the amount of $1500, when, by secret
agreement with the company, he was a subscriber for $500
only; that one Woodell stood in the same position, giving
the amounts; that one Sibley had become a subscriber for
stock, and given his note and mortgage for the same, the
amount not being specified; and that Conover represented
himself as one of the officers of the company.
2d. The promissory representations, as might be expected,
cover a larger space. Thus it is said to have been represented, that the farms and lands of the contributors would
be greatly enhanced in value; that the wheat market of
Milwaukee was a better market than that of Chicago, and
that they would be able to command ilve cents more per
bushel for their wheat after the road should be built; also
that the road should be constructed and equipped within
one year; also that the company would pay large dividends
upon its capital stock; that where farmers and others became subscribers for stock, ana gave their mortgages Lr
the same on long time, drawing eight per cent. interest, that
the company, from its dividends, would pay the interest on
such notes, and that the balance of the dividends, after paying the interest, would be sufficient to pay the principal of
the said notes when the same should become payable; and
the defendant testifies that it was represented to his wife
that it would be an everlasting benefit to her to sign the
mortgage; that the railroad would probably make thirty
per cent., and that it would give her and her family six
hundred dollars a year always.
It is scarcely credible that Prickett should have believed
that the persons making representations like these, intended
to bind themselves to their fulfilment. That Prickett may
have believed the prophecies, is possible; that he may have
understood the makers to believe them is possible, as it is
possible the makers did believe them. But that Prickett
VOL. XIX.

11

162

SAWYER V. PRICKETT AND WIFE.

[Sup. C.

Opinion of the court.

believed the makers to have undertaken for the accomplishnent of the results promised, is not to be believed. It is
contradicted by all the facts in the case. A man of common
intelligence, or of ordinary prudence and caution could not
have so believed.
He did not ask that they should enter into such engagements. He did not stipulate that his obligation to pay his
note and mortgage should depend upon the realization of
the rich promises made to him. On the contrary he made
his subscription, gave his note and mortgage to secure its
payment, and relied upon the success of the enterprise to
indemniry and to enrich him. If there were dividends to
pay the interest, he would not be required to pay it. If
there were dividends applicable to the payment of the principal, the principal would also be discharged. If there were
no dividends, or dividends to pay a portion only of his obligation, he must have known and understood that he had
pledged his farm to the payment of the residue. If his
present theory is correct, instead of giving security to them,
Prickett should have required a bond and mortgage from
the company, as the actual responsibility for results would
rest on the company alone. We are satisfied that such representations, if made, were not relied upon by Prickett; that
they did not form the inducement and consideration of his
subscription.
This view is sustained by the additional writing made at
the time the note and mortgage were executed. That paper
recites the execution of the note and mortgage and their
receipt in payment of the stock subscription ; it stipulates
that so much of the dividends of the stock as shall be sufficient to pay the interest on the note and mortgage is relinquished to the company, the company agreeing not to demand the interest, but to save Prickett harmless from the
same. This would be well enough except for the two agreements immediately following in the same paper, viz., that
Prickett undertakes in any event to pay the principal when
it matures, and that the provision ii relation to interest
shall not be a defence on the part of Prickett to the pay.

Oct. 1873.]

SAWYER V. PRIC K TT AND WIFE.

163

Opinion of the court.

ment of the interest, if the note or mortgage shall be in
the hands of a third party, either as security or otherwise.
So long as he bound himself, at all hazards, to pay the
principal, and to pay the interest if the company should
transfer the note, it is impossible to credit the theory that
he relied upon the alleged promises and expectations as
statements which the makers bound themselves to make
good to him.
It is alleged that the representation was made that the
road should be constructed and equipped, and in full operation, within one year from the (late of the giving of the
note and mortgage. Such a promise by parties having the
means of knowledge of its falsity, from their position as
managers and directors of a railroad, might in law stand
upon a different basis. We do not examine this point, as
there is no evidence of such statement by any one professing to have knowledge, or that there was knowledge of its
falsity, if made. Prickett testifies that Conover stated that
the rolling stock would be on in eighteen months. His
allegation in his answer and his evidence do not agree. It is
not proved that Conover was authorized to make the statement, or that he did not believe it to be true.
It is difficult to see how an action or a defence can be
based upon promissory representations of the character we
have considered, and we are of the opinion that they were
the expressions of hopes, expectations, and beliefs, and that
neither party understood, or had the right to understand,
that they were to be received as statements of facts which
aniy one was bound to make good, or upon which the validity
of the subscription should depend.
The olleged representation of existing facts requires consideration.
1st. It is stated that it was represented that the railroad
in question was duly incorporated and fully organized. The
statement, if made, is sustained by the evidence. It appears
that the company had a regular charter; that it was organized by the election o"fdirectors, the choice of a president
and secretary; and that it had expended considerable

164

SAWYER V. PRICKET

AND WIFE.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

amounts of money in grading its road and in purchasing
materials for its construction.
2d. It is said that the defendants were influenced by, and
were deceived and defrauded by, a pretended subscription
for $1500 of the capital stock of the road, made by McConnell, a man of wealth, of prudence, and caution, in whose
judgment and discretion great confidence was placed, while
in truth, by some secret agreement with the company he
was a subscriber for $500 of stock only. -The attempted
proof of this allegation is a failure. It is proved on the
other band by the officers of the company, and by McConnell himself, that McConnell made a subscription for $1500;
that it was a valid, bond fide subscription; that there was no
condition, limitation, or qualification of it by any agreement,
secret, or otherwise, and that he settled and arranged it as a
sulh'crilition for $1500.
8d. It is alleged that one John Woodell subscribed $1000
upon a similar understanding or agreement. There is no
proof to sustain the allegation. Prickett says that he has
so heard, but that lie has no knowledge on the subject.
4th. It is said that the persons obtaining the subscription
caused it to be represented that John Sibley, a man of
wealth, of integrity, and of influence, had subscribed largely
to the capital stock of the company. Prickett testifies thit
Sibley told him he had mortgaged his house and lot for
stock, and that it would be a good thing, and that he and
others induced him to sign. In answer to a question by his
own counsel, "Would you have become a subscriber to the
capital stock of this company, except from the fhct that
McConnell became a subscriber and the other parties you
have named?" lie says: "If they had not represented as
they did, and if McConnell and other leading citizens of the
town had not subscribed, I certainly should not; but the
representation was an inducement to make the farmers subscribe." "See here, you put in $2000, and you get $600 for
life. Is not that enough?" In effect, be says that he should
not have subscribed except that McConnell and the others
did so, but it is apparent that the controlling influence was

Oct. 1873.]

SAWYER V. PRICKETT AND WIFE.
Opinion of the court.

the idea that if he subscribed for $2000 of the stock he
should get a return of $600 for life.
To make this alleged representation a defence to the mortgage we must believe, first, that it was actually made.
Prickett says that it was made. Sibley testifies positively
that he never made it, that he had subscribed for $500 ol"
stock in a road of Illinois having the same name, with which
this was intended to connect, that he told Prickett of that
subscription, but that he had never subscribed to stock in
this road, aiid had never so stated to Prickett or to any one.
If any statement was made it was more likely to have been
made as to the road where he did own stock than to this one.
It must be believed, secondly, that Sibley was the agent
of the company by whose acts or declarations they would be
bound. Sibley denies any agency or authority, in fact or
assumed, and there is no reasonable evidence to the contrary. He states that as a citizen, and one desirous to have
the road built, he solicited subscriptions, and that he acted
in this capacity only.
And lastly, it must be believed that Prickett relied upon
the statement, that it was an inducement to him to become
a subscriber. This has been sufficiently illustrated by what
has already been said. These are all the allegations of misrepresentations in regard to existing ficts. The evidence to
sustain them is too weak to justify the decree.
The counsel fir the defendants insists further that there
has been a failure of consideration, and that a defence on
that ground arises. We do not so understand it. The defendant received what he bargained lbr, to wit, a certificate
that he was entitled to twenty shares of the capital stock of
the company. He can, so far as the case shows, obtain his
formal shares upon presentation of his certificate. The fact
that the road is unprofitable, or that it has never been completed, does not entitle one who has paid in his subscription
to the capital stock to recover it back, nor does it furnish a
justification for a refusal to pay when the subscription has
not, in fact, been paid. MAoneys so paid or subscribed belong to the creditors of the corporation.

SAWYER V. PRICKETT AND WIFE.

S
[Sup.
Ct,

Opinion of the court.

Nor does a defence arise from the separate paper in relation to the non-payment of interest, which has been before
referred to. The paper expressly provides that it shall furnish no defenc6 to the payment of interest if the note and
mortgage shall be transferred to another party. It is the
personal, separate undertaking of the company to save him
(Priekett) harmless from the ultimate payment of interest,
leaving Prickett to pay the interest if the security shall be
transferred, and to resort to the company for reimbursement.
The paper does not require that there should be an absolute
tranwf.r of the interest and title to'the mortgage to cut off
the defence. A transfer conditionally, or as security, is sufficient.
We see no reason, however, to doubt that the plaintiff is
a bona fide holder. He paid a portion of the amount of the
mortgage in money, and cancelled a valid debt against the
company for the residue. lie had no notice of any defence
to the note, and received the note before its maturity. Under
the rulings of this court it is not necessary to constitute a
bon ftide holding that the value should have been paid at the
time of receiving the security. A past consideration is sufficient.*
We have recently decided that the rule of bond fide holding applies to a case where the proceeding is to foreclose a
mortgage accompanying a note, with the same force as when
the suit is brought upon the note itself.t
The plaintiff had not been a director for some time previously to the taking of this mortgage, and had no part in
getting up this or the other mortgages. The proof shows
a large expenditure in grading and preparing, and in the
purchase of materials, after the giving of this mortgage.
For what reason the enterprise failed does not appear.
There is no evidence of fraud or bad faith.
The defindant's position is an unfortunate one, but we do
* Swift v. Tyson, 16 Peters, 1; Goodman v. Simonds, 20 Howard, 348.

j Carpenter v. Longan, 16 Wallace, 271.

Oct. 1873.]

CROPLEY V.

COOPER.

Syllabus.

not discover amy principle upon which he can justly avoid
the payment of his mortgage.
DECREE REVERSED,

and the cause

REMANDED FOR FURTHER PROCEEDINGS.

CROPLEY V. COOPER.
A. testator having five pieces of property, to wit, insurance stock, a vacant
city lot, a farm, corporation stock, and a city house, and little or no
other, and having four children, to wit, three sons, two (A. and B.)
married and having children, and one (C.) unmarried, and one daughter
(D.) aged thirty, then married and having a child (E.) aged three years,
made his last will.
He left the interest on the insurance stock and the vacant lot to his
married son A.; "and at his death" "the aforementioned stock and
the said vacant lot he equally divided between his (A.'s) children, their
heirs and assigns, forever."
He left the interest on the corporation stock to his son B. "for and during
his life," and at his death the said stock to be equally divided between
his (B's) children.
He left the usufruct of the farm to his unmarried son C., "for and during
his life;" 1 and should he marry and have legal issue," the said farm
to be equally divided amongst his children, when they shall have
arrived at the age of twenty-one years. The will continued: "Should
my said so ndie without lawful issue, it is my will that the said farm be
equally divided between my other children,share and share alike, to them,
their heirs and assigns, forever."
To his daughter he left the rent of his city house for and during her life,
and directed that at her death the same should be sold and ' the avails
thereof become the property of her children or child, when she or they
have arrived at the age of twenty-one years, the interest in the meantime to be applied to their maintenance."
After the testator's death, D., the daughter, had another child, who died
in infancy. The first child, E., lived till he was twenty-eight years
old, and then died, his mother still living, aged fifty-six, and the house
not yet having been sold.
On a bill filed by D., after the death of both her children and of her
husband, to settle the title to the city house, as between herself and her
brothers, the other children of the testator: Held, both on the apparent
intent of this particular will, as seen on reading the dispositions in the
different clauses to all the children, to give a full estate where the child

