Oct. 1873.]

TiHE FALCON.
Syllabus.

therefore, be complete within itself. In the case before us,
the decree fixes no sum which the successful party is to recover. If any process is to be issued to enfbrce it, the clerk
must from the record of the District Court ascertain the
amount, or lie can issue no such process. But this is the
duty of the court, and not the clerk. It may be said that it
is, in such case as this, a mere matter of computation, and
in some cases it may be. But the one before us shows that
it is not always so, for the only question argued by counsel
on this motion is, whether the judgment affirmed is for
$2000 or $2100-for the amount after the remittitur or before. No final decree of a court which enforces its own
judgments ought to be left in such condition that the record
of another court is the only evidence of the amount recovered by the successful party. An order affirming a decree
in another court is neither in express terms nor by necessary
implication a judgment or decree for the amount of the
judgment or decree in that court. The costs of the lower
court, and the interest on its judgment to the date of the
decree or judgment on appeal, are to be added to it, and,
though they nmia be computed by the clerk, they should
have the judicial consideration of the court. According to
these views, there is no final decree such as the law intends
in the Circuit Court in this case, and the appeal is
DISMISSED.

Mr. Justice CLIFFORD dissented.

THE FALCON.
1. A steamer running at the rate of from eight to ten knots an hour, on a
bright moonlight night, in tin open bay, with nothing to mislead her,
condemned for the loss of a schooner sailing with a six-knot breeze,
whose only fault was alleged to be a false mancuvre in the moment of
impending collision. The court declares it to have been the "duty of
the steamer to see the schooner as soon as she could be seen, to watch
her progress and direction, to take into account all the circumstances of
the situation, and so to govern herself as to guard against peril to either

vessel."

THE FALCON.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case in the opinion.
2. Where the libel alleged that the loss by the collision was substantially a
total loss, and the answer substantially admitted this-the vessel having
sunk in Chesapeake Bay in five fathoms water, and it being clear from
thje proofs that she could not have been repaired without a large expenditure of time and money-held, that the fact that she was finally raised,
repaired, and put in good condition, was no defence to a claim for a
total loss ;-especially as it did not appear at whose instance or at what
cost this was done; nor by what right those in possession of her held
her; and it not being either alleged or proved that she had been tendered back to her original owners. The case distinguished from The
Baltimore (8 Wallace, 378).
8. But this decree for a total loss declared to bar any claim to the schooner
by her former owners, and that their title should be remitted to the
owners of the steamer.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court for the District of Maryland, reversing a decree of the District Court for the said
district, in which, on a libel filed by the owners of a small
schooner, the Mary Banks, of one hundred and eighty-six
tons, against the steamer Falcon, for a total loss by collision,
the District Court had condemned the steamer for the total
loss asserted.

Mr. I. C. Schley, for the appellant; Messrs. J. H. B. Latrobe and S. T. Wallis, contra.
Mr. Justipe SWAYNE stated the facts or evidence, and
delivered the opinion of the court.
On the 21st of June, 1867, about half-past one o'clock,
the schooner Mary Banks was proceeding up the Chesapeake Bay to Baltimore. The steamer Falcon, on her way
to Charleston, came in view. The night was clear and
bright, with moonlight and starlight. The waters of the
bay were calm. The schooner was under way with a sixknot breeze. The steamer was making from eight to ten
knots an hour. The captain of the steamer says: "My
steamer is one hundred and sixty-five feet long, or thereabouts. I had about three miles navigable water on my
starboard bow. On my larboard bow I had all of five or
six miles of navigable water. There was no obstacle to the
navigation of this sea-room except the schooner." The
A.M.,

Oct. 1873.]

THE FALCON.

7.7

Opinion of the court.

vessels approached each other and came in collision. The
steamer struck the schooner. The answer admits "that the
said schooner was cut half in twain, and not altogether in
twain, as charged;" a difference of small moment, however,
inasmuch as it is admitted that she sank in consequence of
the collision. The sinking was immediate. The crew were
rescued by the steamer and landed at Fortress Monroe.
The answer alleges that the collision was caused by the fault
of the schooner in porting her helm and coming suddenly
under the bow of the steamer when it was too late for the
latter to avoid her. The District Court adjudged the steamer
to have been solely in fault, and decreed accordingly. The
respondents appealed to the Circuit Court. There the decree of the District Court was reversed and the libel dismissed. The libellants appealed to this court, and the
decree of the Circuit Court is thus brought before us for
review.
This is a simple case. iNo searching analysis of the testimony is necessary to enable us to find the proper conclusions. It was the duty of the steamer to keep out of the
way of the schooner. She had at command all the means
to do so. There was ample sea-room, calm weather and
water, abundant light, and no other vessel in proximity on
her larboard or starboard side. None other is mentioned as
in sight. It was the duty of the steamer to see the schooner
as soon as she could be seen, to watch her progress and direction, to take into account all the circumstances of the
situation, and so to govern herself as to guard against peril
to either vessel.
The steamer was grossly in fault in approaching so near
the schooner and at so high a rate of speed. This was the
source of the disaster that followed. The only fault imputed to the schooner is that almost at the moment of the
collision she ported her helm. This fact is not satisfactorily
established by the testimony. The proof is that the captain
said so after reaching the steamer. ]He denies it. The
mate says, "I kept my course steadily north by west." He

THE FALCON.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

was cross-examined by the respondents' counsel, but no
question was asked as to this point. There is no other evidence upon the subject. What was deemed due to porting
the helm may have been the effect of the wind after the
helmsman fled from his post. If the fact were as claimed it
would not mitigate the fault of the steamer. Nor *can the
desertion of the helmsman at such a time have that effect.
The peril was immediately impending. The safety of the
vessel and the lives of the crew were at stake. A moment
later the collision occurred. The helmsman in his flight
was thrown down by the shock and broke his leg. The vessel sank, and the crew would have gone down with her but
for the aid of the steamer. If in an emergency so sudden
and so alarming an order were given which should not have
been given, or an act were done which should not have been
done, the law regards it an error and not a fault, and holds
the offending vessel to be the cause, and liable as if it had
not occurred.
We think the decree of the District Court was in all
things correct, and should have been affirmed.
After the case was appealed to the Circuit Court, and before the hearing there, the respondents took testimony showing that the schooner had been raised, repaired, and put in
good condition. At whose instance and at what cost this
was done, and by what right those in possession claimed to
hold her, are not shown; nor is it alleged or proved that she
was ever tendered back to the appellants. The appellees
insist that the facts disclosed entitle them to have the decree
of the Circuit Court affirmed, and rely upon the case- of The
Ballimore* as an authority to that eiThet. This is a mistaken
view of the subject. In the case of The -Baltimorethe libel
alleged a total loss. The answer expressly denied it. There
the sinking was in the river Potomac. The water was
shoal. The masts projected eighteen feet above its surface,
and the position of the hull was clearly discernible. The
* 8 Wallace, 378.

Oct. 1873.]

THE FALCON.
Opinion of the court.

vessel could have been easily raised and repaired. Here the
libel alleges substantially a total loss, and the answer substantially admits it. No point to the contrary was raised or
suggested. The schooner was sunk in the Chesapeake Bay,
where the water was- five fhthoms deep. It is clear, from
the proofs, that she could not have been raised and repaired
without a large expenditure of time and money. The case
of The Baltimore has, therefore, no application to the case
before us.
This subject has been under consideration upon two occasions in the English admiralty court. In The -EmpressEugenie,* the owner had raised and repaired the vessel. The
cost of the repairs exceeded the original value of the vessel, and this might have been ascertained before the repairs
were commenced. It was held that the measure of damages was the value of the ship before the collision, with
interest from the date when the cargo would, ini the ordinary course, have been delivered, together with the cost of
raising and the cost of placing the ship in the dock for inspection, less the value of the wreck as raised. It was said
"that it was a mistake to have repaired her at all, and that
it would have been better to have abandoned her from the
first."
In the case of The Columbus,t that vessel had sunk the
fishing-smack Tryall. The owner of the Columbus raised
the smack and carried her into Rye Harbor. Notice of this
was given to the owner of the smack, with an intimation
that the owner of the Columbus was ready to deliver her up
and would not be responsible for any further damage or expense that might be incurred by her remaining unrepaired
in the harbor of Rye. It does not appear whether she was
repaired or not. Dr. Lushington said: "The rule which I
consider it incumbent upon this court to follow is this, that
if a vessel is not merely run into and partially damaged, but
is actually sunk at sea, it is not incumbent upon the owner
of that vessel to go to any expense whatever for the purpose
* I Lushington, 139.

t 3 W. Robinson, 161.

80

THE FALCON.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

of raising her." He said further, that the owner of rhe
smack "was not bound to repair her, and might have left
her lying in the port," and that the proper course would
have been to apply to the court for an order that the smack
be sold and the proceeds brought in to abide the result of
the suit. The Columbus was held liable for the full value
of the smack as if there had been a total loss; but it was
also held that the owner of the Columbus might still apply
for an order to sell the smack, and that "the proceeds of
such sale will be his own property." Whether, if the smack
had been repaired and then tendered back, her owner would
have been bound to receive her, is a point not touched upon,
and which it is not necessary here to consider.*
Upon the authority of The Columbus, it is clear that the
steamer is liable for the full value of the schooner at the
time of her loss. We think that case lays down the proper
rule.
There may be interests and complications touching the
schooner in relation to which we are not advised and which
are not represented in this litigation. We cannot, therefore, order her to be sold and the proceeds to be paid to the
owners of the steamer. But, where there is an abandonment by the assured to the assurer, the title of the property
passes to the latter. So, where in an action of trespass or
trover there is a recovery of the full value of the property
to which the action relates, the title of the plaintiff is transferred ipso facto to the defendant. In analogy to the principle of these cases, we adjudge that the decree to be pronounced against the steamer shall bar any further claim to
the schooner on the part of the appellants, and that their
title shall be thereby remitted to the appellees.
DECREE REVERSED, and the case remanded to the Circuit
Court with directions to enter a decree
IN

CONFORMITY TO THIS OPINION.

1 Parsons's Shipping and Admiralty, 543.

