ZANTZINGEuS

v.

GUNTON.

[Sup. Ot.

Syllabus.

The first entry by Poncin was clearly void, and the commissioner was right in setting it aside. When the act in
question was passed, the United States held the land as if
no entry had been made. Being the absolute owners, they
could grant it upon such terms and conditions as Congress
might prescribe. The government united the powers of
ownership and legislation, and both were exercised in passing the act. The act declared, first, that the entry should
be reinstated as of its original date, and that a patent should
issue to Poncin ; second, that the title should enure to the
benefit of his grantees as he should have conveyed the land.
The law is explicit and there is no difficulty in carrying out
its provisions. It must be liberally construed to effect the
purposes of its enactment. By Poncin's grantees was meant
those claiming title under him. Those to whom he might
have conveyed were no more intended to be beneficiaries
under the act, than those holding remoter links in the same
chain of title. When he paid his money and procured a
certificate of entry pursuant to the act, an equity vested in
each of those who would have held it, if the original entry
had been valid, and when the patent issued, the legal title
vested in the same parties. The act applied the doctrine of
relation. It made no distinction between grantees with
warranty and those without it. If there had been outstanding title-bonds, they also would have been within the equity
of the act, and the holders could have enforced them accordingly. The law and equity of the case are with the appellees, and the decree of the Circuit Court is
AFFIRMED.

ZANTZINGERS V.

GUNTON.

I Although a bank by statute, or the trustees, on the expiration thereof,
who liquidate its affairs, may be deprived of power to take or hold real
estate, this does not prevent either's making an arrangement through
the medium of a trustee, by which, without ever having a legal title,

Oct. 1873.]

ZANTZINGERS V. GUNTON.
Statement of the case.

control, or ownership of such estate, they yet secure a debt for which
they had a lien on such estate, and have the estate sold so as to pay the
debt.
2. A bill against a trustee for an account dismissed on a case stated.

APPEAL from the Supreme Court of the District of CoInnibia; the case as assumed by this court on the evidence
being thus:

In the year 1844, the charter of the Bank of Washington,
in the city of that name, being about to expire, and its affairs
to pass into the hands of William Gunton, its late president,
and certain other persons as trustees, to wind them up to
the best advantage, and the bank having a debt of some
amount due to it from Daniel Carroll, for which it had a lien
on several lots in Washington already previously incumbered, Gunton, in behalf of the bank, requested a certain
William Fisher there, with whom he was on terms of much
intimacy, to become the purchaser, as agent of the bank, of
the lots; Gunton promising to save him from any loss.
Fisher consented to become the purchaser in the way mentioned. The bank accordingly furnished the requisite funds,
about $6065.84, to Fisher, who gave his note therefor, and he
bought the lots, a conveyance of them being made to him.
Subsequently to this, the charter of the bank having now
expired, Fisher and wife made a conveyance of them by
deed to Gunton. This conveyance was declared to be in
trust to secure the payment of the note of William Fisher
for $6065.84 at sixty days, payable to his own order; and it
authorized a sale of the property for that purpose, and directed the trustee to pay the balance, if there should be any,
as the grantor might by further instrument in writing direct.
Fisher afterwards did by a formal instrument, under sea],
direct that after the sale of all the lots, and the payment of
the note and interest and the costs of the trusts, including
compensation to the trustee, any remainder should be paid
to the trustees of the bank.
In this state of things, certain persons of the name of
Zautzinger, related to Fisher, and who had become through
VOL. XIX.

8

ZANTZINGERS

v.

GUNTON.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

the dispositions of his will owners of all real estate which
he left at his death, filed a bill against Gunton setting forth
that Fisher had given a note for $6065.84 to the bank, and
had conveyed these lots to Gunton, the president of its
trustees, to secure it; that Gunton bad never settled any
account, and that they had no knowledge whether the note
had been paid or what disposition had been made of the lots
conveyed as security; and praying an account, &c.
The bill made no kind of reference to the instrument of
appointment abovementioned as having been executed by
Fisher, by which he directed that after the sale of the lots
and payment of the note, &c., any remainder should be paid
to the trustees of the bank.
The answer set up as defence the history of the matter as
above given, and especially that Fisher had by formal instrument of appointment, produced, directed that any surplus left after paying his note should be paid to the trustees.
Proof was taken, including testimony of Gunton himself,
which if believed established, of itself, the defence. The
court below dismissed the bill, and from that, its action, the
complainants took this appeal.
Messrs. F. Miller, B. T. Merrick, and T. J1. -Durant,for the
appellant,referred to certain acts of Congress,* arguing from
them that the bank had no power to hold real estate except
for certain specified purposes, for which they did not hold
these lots, and that the trustees had no power to take and
hold it at all.
Messrs. T D. McPherson and W. D. Davidge, contra, were
relieved by the court.
Mr. Justice MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.
The complainants in their bill, omitting any statement of
the formal instrument of appointment made by Fisher, and
treating the deed of trust as a mere security for his note,
* 2 Stat. at Large, 625; 3 Id. 618; 5 Id. 451.

Oct. 1878.]

ZANTZINGERS v.

GUNTON.

Opinion of the court.

allege that there is a balance in the hands of the trustee,
Gunton, to which they are entitled, and call upon him for
aii account.
The answer of the defendant, which is fully sustained by
the proof, sets up two defences, either of which is in our
opinion sufficient:
1. It sets up and relies upon the instrument 'hich appointed and directed that he should pay any balance remaining of the proceeds of the sale of the lots, after satisfying
the note, to the trustees of the Bank of Washington.
As these instruments are all under seal and by the common law imply on their face a good consideration, they show
that the grantor had parted with all his interest in the property. The legal title was in the trustee, and the equitable
interest in the trustees of the bank. His direction to the
trustee to sell, and his subsequent direction to pay the proceeds to these trustees, carried all the interest he ever held.
Of course, no interest in these lots or in the proceeds of
their sale passed either by his will or by inheritance to the
complainants.
2. But the answer and the evidence further show very
fully that William Fisher only held the legal title as naked
trustee without interest, for the use of the trustee- of the
Bank of Washington. About the period of the expiration of
the charter of that institution, it became necessary, in order
to secure payment of a debt due to it from Daniel Carroll, to
have the lots in question, on which they had a lien, placed in
a situation where the money could be realized. The lots
were accordingly purchased by Fisher, at the request of the
trustees of the bank, who furnished the money, and the note
and trust deed to Gunton (who was one of the trustees of
The bank) were devices by which the lots were divested of
other liens and placed in the hands of Gunton, so that on
sales to be made, at convenient times and fair prices, the
proceeds in the shape of money could be paid to the trustees who had the management of the bank. Fisher never
paid any money, nor was it intended that he should. His
note was placed in the bank, and was by it protected and

ZANTZINGERS

v.

GUNTON.

[Sup. Ct,

Opinion of the court.

cancelled in due time. It was on his part a mere act of
friendship to accept the trust and confidence reposed in him
by the trustees of the bank, and he carried out faithfully the
requirements of that trust. The eforts of the present complainants to take advantage of this confidence, and to assert
an interest which he never thought of claiming, do not commend themselves to a court of equity, and the technical
rules of the law on which they are based should be very
clearly in their favor to enable them to succeed. We are
of opinion they have no place here.
It is said that neither the bank, whose charter.had expired,
nor the trustees who were authorized to wind up its afiirs,
could purchase or hold real estate.
As a general proposition this may be true. And if the
transaction here was in its eftect to vest in the bank the real
estate in question, either by its legal title or the absolute
equitable ownership and control of it, the question presented
and argued by counsel would arise if complainants were in
position to raise it. But it is very clear that no such effect
can be given to the transaction we are considering. The
bank hid a debt due to it and a lien on this property. The
right of the bank, or its liquidating trustees, to have this
property so sold as to pay this debt is undoubted. If in
doing this they were compelled, for their own protection, to
buy off other incumbrances, so that when sold and converted into money all of it should be paid to them, no principle of law or justice was violated. Neither the bank nor
the trustees of the bank ever had the legal title, or the power
of sale, or the right to control the time or the terms of the
sale. If Gunton, the trustee, had fhiled or ref'used to sell,
or died without a sale, no power lay in the trustees of the
bank to make a sale or to receive the title. Their only
remedy would have been to assert their right to a sale and
to the proceeds ol" it in a court of chancery.
It cannot be said., then, that the trustees of the bank ever
had the legal title, the control, or the ownership of the land,
and their only interest was a right to the proceeds when the
!ots should be sold under the deed of trust. This was not

Oct. 1873.]

BULKLEY V. UNITED STATES.

General statement of the case.

in our opinion forbidden by any law of the District, statutory
or otherwise. Nor do we think it worth any consideration
that Fisher's note was given in the transaction. He incurred
no risk; he acquired no real interest in the property and
claimed none; and if he ever had a technical legal interest
he parted with it when he gave the deed of trust and the
subsequent authority to pay the proceeds of the sale to the
trustees of the bank.
DECREE AFFIRMED.

BULKLEY v. UNITED STATES.
A. contracted with the government to transport a large quantity of army supplies, the government agreeing that in order that he should be in readiness to meet its demands for transportation due notice should be given
to him of the quantity to be transported at any one time. The government gave him notice that transportation would be required at a time
named for a certain large amount of supplies specified, and inquired if
he would get ready. He replied affirmatively, and did get ready. The
government at the time named furnished a small part of the supplies
of which they had given notice to the contractor, but not needing transportation for the much larger residue did not furnish that. On suit by
the contractor against the government for profits which he would have
made had the supplies been furnished as he received notice that they
would be, Held, that the notice did not amount to an agreement to furnish the amount of supplies specified, and therefore that the contractor
could not recover the profits which he would have made had the freights
withheld been furnished to him.
Held, further, that the government having thrown upon him needless expense by requiring him to make ready for the transportation of freights
under the contract, which they did not in the end require to be transported, he was entitled to recover for the expense to which he was thus
subjected.

from the Court of Claims, in which court H. S.
filed
a petition against the United States to recover
Bulkley
damages on a contract for the transportation of army supplies in the West, by which, as he alleged, the government,
after having given him notice that it would furnish to him
certain supplies for transportation, and not having furnished
APPEAL

