[Sup. Mr.

RYAN V. UNITED STATES.
Syllabus.

from the order of the District Court disbarring him. The record
being filed, he moved that the case be advanced on the calendar
for hearing.
Mr. Justice CLIFFORD, after stating the facts respecting the
order disbarring the appellant, delivered the opinion of the court
as follows:
The petitioner moves the court to advance the case. Cases
involving great hardships are frequently brought here for revis.
Jon, and in such cases it is competent for the court to advance
the same on motion. Still the motion must be denied, as it is
well-settled law that neither an appeal nor a writ of error will
lie in such a case. HIence it was held in the case of Ex parte
Bradley, that mandamus from this court to a subordinate court
was a proper remedy to restore an attorney at law, disbarred
by such subordinate court, for a contempt committed by him
before another court, as in such a case the court issuing the
order disbarring the attorney had no jurisdiction to pass the
order.
Whether the present case can be distinguished from the case
cited will not now be decided, but the court is of opinion that
the remedy of the party, if any, in this court, is not by an
appeal.*

.MOTIONDENIED.

RYAN ET AL. V. UNITED STATES.

I. Sureties on a bond for the transportation of tobacco from one district to
another, in the condition of which, the number of boxes and pounds of
tobacco are given, and the kind of tobacco described, are responsible for
the delivery at the proper place of the tobacco, and not the boxes in
which it was supposed to be, but never was.
2. The fraud of the principal in filling the boxes with other substances than
tobacco before they left his warehouse, does not release the sureties from
this obligation.
8 Nor does the carelessness of the inspecting~officer, though it made the
fraud of the principal in the bond easier of accomplishment, release the
sureties on his transportation bond.
* Ex parte Bradley, 7 Wallace, 364.

Oct. 1873.]

RyAN

1v.UNITED

515

STATES.

Statement of the case.

D'Rio to the Circuit Court for Indiana; the case, as appeared by a special finding of the court, being thus
John May, a manufacturer of tobacco, at Indianapolis, in
the sixth collection district of Indiana, had a quantity of
plug tobacco in his store on which he had not paid the government taxes. Representing to the assessor and collector
of his district that he wished to "transport" it from his factory to a bonded warehouse, Class B, in New York, he got
permission to do so, on executing the usual transportation
bond with surety.* He did accordingly execute such bond,
in the penalty of $10,000, with one Ryan and another as his
sureties. The condition of the bond was:
"That if the above-bounden Sohn May shall tiansport or
cause to be transported, and within twenty days from the date
hereof shall complete the transportation of the following described merchandise,viz.,
Marks.

A
B

Serial No. of packMr
n umbers.
.. I ages.

Articles.
..

110 boxes FLuG ToB3Acco.

No. ofRlbs.te
No of.......ax

11,928

40c.

Amt.oftax.

$4771 20

V
from the manufactory owned by John May, at Indianapolis,
directly to the thirty-second district of the State of New York,
and shall deliver the same to the collector of said district, and
store or cause the same to be stored in a bonded warehouse,
Class B, in said district, according to law, then this obligation
is to be void; otherwise to abide and remain in full force and
virtue."
Before executing and delivering the bond, May exhibited
110 boxes to the inspector of tobacco and represented to him
that they contained plug tobacco of a quality subject to a
duty of 40 cents a pound. The inspector did not examine
the contents of the boxes, the same being closed and nailed
up so as to exclude a view of the contents. The boxes were
* The reader is aware, of course, that the effect of a "transportation" is
to relieve the property from tax at the place where it is manufactured, and
to make it subject to the tax at that place to which it is transported.

RYAN V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

0

Statement of the case.

duly branded by the inspector as containing plug tobacco.
After the execution of the bond, and after its delivery to
the oficers of the United States, May shipped to the thirtysecond collection district of New York the identical 110
boxes exhibited as aforesaid to the inspector, the same being
the boxes branded by him, and the boxes were delivered in
a bonded warehouse, Class B, in said thirty-second district
of New York. The collector of that district certified to the
collector of the sixth collection district of Indiana that the
boxes had been so received, and the usual bond executed
therefor by the consignee, and thereupon the collector of
the collection district of Indiana entered the transportation
bond given by May and his sureties "cancelled." The certificate of the"collector of the collection district of New York,
and the entry of cancellation by the collector of the district
of Indiana, were made without knowing what the boxes
contained.
The boxes, after their delivery in the bonded warehouse,
New York, were discovered to contain nothing but ashes,
brickdust, brickbats, tobacco remnants, &c. They contained
no tobacco in plug. The sureties had no knowledge of the
contents of the boxes at any time before their arrival and
inspection in the bonded warehouse at New York; they executed the bond in good faith. The thing, in short, was a
fraud practiced by May, who, by means of this pretence of
transporting the plug tobacco to New York, was enabled to
withdraw it from the manufactory at Indianapolis and cheat
the government out of its revenue. For after the bond was
given, and the 110 boxes sent off, May could, without observation, smuggle away as much plug tobacco still in his
factory as the 110 boxes would hold (about 12,000 lbs.) the
tax upon which was still unpaid. By pretending to remove
to New York what the 110 boxes would hold he could obtain
credit for it on the assessor's lists, and then its disappearance
would be a matter of course. The bond enabled him to remove not only the boxes, but the tobacco as well, and the
latter need not go to New York.
Being indicted for this fraud, May fled the country; and

Oct. 1873.]

RYAN V. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the court.

being wholly insolvent, the United States sued Ryan and the
other surety upon the transportation bond already mentioned. The court below, on the case as abeve stated, gave
judgment against them and they took this writ of error.
Messrs. McDonald and Butler, for the plaintiffs in error, argued that inasmuch as the court found that the boxes were
delivered at the proper place in New York, in the precise
condition in which they were when they left the manufactory, the sureties had complied with the condition of their
bond; that the fraud committed by May was unknown to
them, and was successful only by reason of the negligence
of the revenue officer who examined the boxes before they
left the factory, and who branded them as containing plug
tobacco.
The learned counsel appended to their brief certain
"Rules" prescribed by the Internal Revenue Bureau, a
strict observance of which, they conceived, might have prevented the fraud.
Mr. S. F. Phillips, Solicitor-General, contra.
Mr. Justice MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.
The condition of the bond describes the subject of it with
great particularity. It calls it merchandise, and besides
giving the number of boxes, calls it plug tobacco. It also
gives the precise number of pounds, the tax for which each
pound was liable, and the aggregate of the tax. The con.
dition is that this tobacco shall be transported from the manufactory where it then was to the proper warehouse in New
York, and on the performance of this condition the bond
for 10,000 was to be void, and not otherwise. That the
condition was to transport the plug tobacco, and not the
boxes in which it was supposed to be, is too obvious for argument. Who is to be responsible for the fact that the
tobacco was never in the boxes; the persons who gave this
bond binding themselves that May would deliver 11,9281
pounds of plug tobacco in New York, or the party for whose
security it was given, and who was to lose if it was not so

RYAN

v.

UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

delivered? The question admits of but one answer. When
the sureties joined their principal in such a bond, it was
their duty to protect themselves by seeing that the tobacco
for which they were responsible was so transported, and if
they trusted to him instead of making the requisite examination and supervision of the transaction, they must bear
the loss sustained by this misplaced confidence.
It is urged, however, that the officer whose duty it was to
examine these boxes did it in such a negligent manner that
the success of the fraud is to be attributed to his carelessness.
The finding of the court is, that the inspector did not examine the contents of said boxes, the same being closed and
nailed up so as to exclude a view of the contents, and that
they were duly branded by him as containing plug tobacco.
The Circuit Court does not find that this was negligence,
and we are not prepared here to say on this slight statement,
as matter of law, that it was negligence. But if it were negligence we are of opinion that it was not such as would relieve the sureties from an obligation to the United States,
voluntarily assumed by them, that 110 boxes containing
11,9281 pounds of plug tobacco should be delivered by their
principal in New York. The very purpose of their bond
was to secure the United States against the fraud of their
principal, and the fraud was committed by him, in the very
matter which the bond was designed to guard against. To
say that the carelessness of the revenue officer made this
fraud easier of accomplishment, can be no release of the
sureties from their obligation. Some rules prescribed by
the Internal Revenue Bureau for the guidance of these officers in reference to transportation of tobacco in bond, are
annexed to the brief of the plaintiffs in error. They are not
made a part of the record by bill of exceptions or otherwise,
and are not, we think, matter for our judicial cognizance.
If they were, we see nothing in them to change the opinion
we have formed without them, that the judgment of the
Circuit Court holding the sureties liable on their bond was
right. It is, therefore,
AFFIRMED.

