CALDWELL'S

CASE.

[Sup. Or.

Statement of the case.

CALDWELL'S CASE.
1. In a contract made for the transportation of military supplies and stores
in the Western country, and in the presence of actual war, between the
military department of the government and a private party, the terms
" posts, depots, and stations" are to be taken in their military sense and
not in the sense of railway posts, depots, and stations.
2. When such a contract speaks of military posts or depots oN the west bank
of a river, posts, one of which is 92 miles west of the river, and another
132 miles, and a third 191 miles, cannot be considered as within the
designation.

from the Court of Claims.
Caldwell sued the United States to recover damages for
the breach of a transportation contract, dated Larch 12th,
1866; the government then being at war with Western
Indians. The articles on which the points in dispute arose
were thus:
APPEALS

" ARTiCE I. The said Caldwell shall receive at any time, in
any of the months from April to September, inclusive, during the
year 1866, from the officers or agents of the quartermaster's department at Forts Leavenworth and Riley, in Kansas; at Fort
Kearney, Nebraska Territory; Fort Sedgwick, Colorado Territory; Fort Laramie, Dakota Territory; and at any points or
places at which posts or depots shall be established during the
continuance of this contract, ON the west bank of the Missouri
River, north of Fort Leavenworth and south of latitude 42 degrees north, all such military stores and supplies as may be
offered to him for transportation

. . .

by the officer of the quar-

termaster's department, at any or all of the above points or
places, and transport the same with dispatch, and deliver theni
. . . to the officer of the quartermaster's department on duty at

any of the posts or depots which are now or may be hereafter established in the Territory of Colorado north of 40 degrees north,

and at Denver City, and in the Territories of Nebraska, Dakota,
Idaho, and Utah, south of latitude 44 degrees north, including
Fort Reno, and east of longitude 114 degrees west of Green.
vioh.
" APTIoLE II. The said Caldwell agrees . . . to transport un

Oct. 1873.]

CALDWELL'S

CASE.

Statement of the case.

der this agreement, from the posts, depots, or stations named in
okrtlcle I, or from and to any other posts, depots, or stations that
may be established within the district named in said article, any
number of pounds of military stores and supplies, from and between 100,000 lbs. and 10,000,000 lbs. in the aggregate.
"AitTICLE XI. The said Caldwell shall transport all the military stores and supplies for which the quartermaster's department may require wagon transportation by contract, on the
route specified by this agreement, during the year 1866, provided
the weight of such military stores and supplies shall not exceed,
in the aggregate, 10,000,000 lbs.; yet nothing herein shall be so
construed as to forbid or prevent the United States from using
its own means of transportation for such service, whenever it
may be deemed advisable to do so."
The case, as found by the Court of Claims, was thus:
At the date of the contract the only military posts oN the
west bank of the Missouri River, within the said district,
were Fort Leavenworth, ii Kansas, and Omaha, in Nebraska
Territory.
On or before the 30th day of March, 1866, the president
of the Union Pacific Railroad advised the QuartermasterGeneral that the company had sixty miles of their line comnpleted west of Omaha, and that the company expected to
complete the first hundred miles by the 10th of June.
In the summer and autumn of 1866 the railroad company
had extended their line westward to Columbus, Lone Tree,
and Kearney's Station, and it offered to the United States a
more expeditious and cheaper mode of transportation than
wagon transportation.
In the summer of 1866 the United States had collected at
Omaha military stores and supplies, intended for the supply
of posts west of the Missouri River, and within the district
covered by the contract with Caldwell, and in the year 1866
they sent by the said railroad quantities of the said stores
and supplies from Omaha to Columbus, Lone Tree, and
Kearney's Station, the successive termini of the railroad as
it was extended westward.
In the mouth of June, 1866, the United States contracted

CALDWELL'S

CASE.

[Sup. C".

Statement of the case.

with one Kountze for the transportation of the said stores
and supplies from Columbus, Lone Tree, and Kearney's
Station to Fort McPherson, Fort Laramie, and Fort Kearney, and Kountze, under the said contract, and in the year
1866, performed the transportation; that is to say, from
April to September, 1866, he transported 2,945,484 lbs., and
in October transported 693,964 lbs.
Previous to the delivery of the said military stores and
supplies to the railroad company, and before the making of
the said contracts with Kountze, Caldwell was prepared,
and gave notice to the United States of his readiness to
transport them, under and according to his contract.
Previous to the delivery of the stores and supplies to
Kountze, but after the making of the said contracts with
him, Caldwell was prepared and claimed of the United
States the right, under his contract, to transport them from
the termini of said railroad to such places, within his contract, as the United States might designate.
No notice was given by the United States to Caldwell,
under his contract, to transport the military stores and supplies transported by said Kountze. But on the 11th of June,
1866, he received notice from the United States that transportation, under his contract, would not be needed.
The cost of the transportation of the said stores and supplies delivered to Kountze in any of the months from April
to September, inclusive, would have been to Caldwell $1.45
per 100 lbs. per hundred miles.
The Court of Clainis, holding that the expression "posts
and depots oN the west bank of the Missouri lliver," &c.,
was not confined to posts and depots "on the water-line of
the river," but was used "merely to denote the most easterly line of the district covered by the contract," and that
the terms "posts, depots, or stations" did not, of necessity,
mean military posts, depots, or stations, awarded to Caldwell
$35,689.01, as damages for the failure to deliver 2,945,484
lbs. of supplies, which were transported from Omaha to
Columbus, to Lone Tree, and to Kearney Station by rail,
and thence to Fort McPherson, Fort Laramie, and Fort

Oct. 1873.]

CALDWELL'S C ASE.

Opinion of the court.

Reno by wagon, between the months of April and September, 1866. But holding that the clause in Article Xf, by
which it was agreed that Caldwell should transport all the
military stores and supplies for which the quartermaster's
department might require wagon transportation, &c., "during the year 1866," was only a provision for additional transportation that might be required in other months than those
from April to September, previously specified, and under
another contract than this to be made, the court limited the
recovery to transportation during the months from April to
September, 1866, inclusive, and refused to allow damages
for the failure to deliver for transportation the supplies
which were carried in October, 1866. The United States
appealed from the first branch of the judgment, and Caldwell from the latter part.
Messrs. Durant and .Horner,for the claimant, Caidwell; Mr.
C.H.
H i , Assistant Attorney-General, contra.
Mr. Justice HUNT delivered the opinion of the court.
In the view we have taken of the case, it is unnecessary
to consider a question largely discussed in the court below,
and in the briefs of counsel here, to wit, whether the contract, although not in terms containing a stipulation binding
the United States to deliver to the claimant all the stores
and supplies it desired to transport between the points mentioned, was to be construed as having that effect. Our
decision of the case rests upon other grounds, which are
reached upon the assumption that the claimant is right in
his construction of the contract, in that respect, but do not
at all depend upon it.
By the second article of the contract of Caldwell, the
claimant, he undertakes to transport " from the posts, depots,
or stations named in Article I," or from "any other posts,
delots, or stations that may be established" on the west
bank of the Missouri River, any number of pounds of supplies not exceeding 10,000,000 lbs. in the aggregate. The
posts named in Article I are, Forts Leavenworth and Riley,

CALDWELL'S

CASE.

[Sup. CL.

Opinion of the court.

in Kansas; Fort Kearney, Nebraska; Fort Sedgwick, Colorado; Fort Laramie, Dakota. The district named in said
article within which other posts may be established is, the
west bank of the Missouri River, north of Leavenworth and
south of 42 degrees north latitude.
The posts from which the supplies were sent, which, it is
said, should have been delivered to the claimant, were not
those named in Article I, or either of them. They were
Omaha at the outset, or starting-point, and Columbus, Lone
Tree, and Kearney Station (not Fort Kearney), as the intermediate points from which wagon transportation was taken.
These three points were railroad stations on the Union Pacific Railroad, and they were points to which the road was,
from time to time, sufficiently completed for the purposes
of railroad travel or transportation.
The judgment of the Court of Claims is based upon the
theory that the expression in the contract, "posts, depots, or
stations," includes railway depots or stations; that when a
depot or station was established upon the Pacific road, as its
construction advanced westwardly, such point became a post
or station within the meaning of the contract. We are of
the opinion that this was not the intention of the parties,
but that military posts or stations alone were intended by
them.
The contract was intended to aid the government in the
transfer of its stores and supplies from one military post,
station, or depot to another. While the same words in a
contract, the subject-matter of which respected goods to be
transported for individuals, and in time of peace, might be
construed as claimed, such is not their fair and natural
meaning in the contract we are considering. The term
ipost," in this instrumenit, means a military establishment
where a body of troops is permanently fixed; "station"
means a place or department where a military duty is to be
discharged, or the synonym of " depot," a place where military stores or supplies are kept, or troops assembled. To
apply them otherwise would, we think, be giving a forced
f-nF --etion to language used in the presence of actual war,

Oct. 1873.']

(CALDWELL'S (OASE.
Opinion of the court.

in reference to military stores, and in reference to their
transportation from one military position to another, as the
necessities of the army should require.
Columbus, Lone Tree, and Kearney are not "on the west
bank of the Missouri River," and the contract limits the
other posts, stations, or depots that may be established to
that locality. The record shows that from Omaha to Columbus is ninety-two miles, to Lone Tree is one hundred
and thirty-two miles, and to Kearney Station is one hundred
and ninety-one miles, and there is no evidence that the Missouri River is, at any other point, nearer to the places named
than is thus indicated. It would be quite a latitudinarian
construction that would hold that these places are "on the
Missouri River." The specifications of the points of departure are minutely described in Article I, and cannot be
enlarged by the looser language used in Article III, where
another subject is provided for, and the points of departure
are mentioned in an incidental manner only.
The supplies now under consideration, it will be observed,
were shipped from Omaha as the first or original point of
departure. Omaha is situated on the west bank of the Missouri River, and was a station, or depot, where military
stores and supplies were collected, and where troops were
assembled at the time the claimant's contract was made. It
is, nevertheless, not a point from which the supplies that
were to be forwarded, were by the contract to be delivered
to the claimant. Those points were the places named, to
wit: Forts Leavenworth, Riley, Kearney, Sedgwick, and
Laramie; the station, or depot, of Omaha not being named.
Nor can it come under the words "at such points or places
at which posts or depots shall be established during the continuance of this contract, on the west bank of the Missouri
River," as it was a post, or depot, established long before
the making of the contract, and was in full operation as a
post or station when the contract was made.
The reason for this careful omission of Omaha, both from
the expressed points of departure and those afterwards to be
formed, is found in the fact that it was the eastern terminus

CALDWELL'S

CASE.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

of the Union Pacific Railroad. The building of this road
was then going on. It was well known to the United States
authorities that it would be rapidly extended westwardly,
and that it would be a speedy and cheap means of transporting its supplies. The contract with the claimant required
the supplies to be transported at the rate of ten miles a day
with mule trains and fourteen miles a day with ox trains,
and at the expense of $1.45 per 100 lbs. for every hundred
miles. The train upon the railroad would carry the supplies
the same distance in an hour, and the expense would be diminished nearly as much as the speed would be increased.
All this was well known to both parties. Hence when the
road was completed to Columbus it was used by the government for that distance, and when successively completed to
Lone Tree and Kearney, it was used to those places. That
the United States under such circumstances intended to deprive itself of the power to use this new and more useful
mode of transportation can scarcely be credited. It has not
done so in terms, and, we think, that there is no fair reason
to suppose that it has done so by implication.
The whole matter results in this: The government is responsible in damages if it has sent its supplies through other
parties than the claimant from the posts of Leavenworth,
Riley, Kearney, Sedgwick, or Laramie, or from other stations or posts thereafter established on the west bank of the
Missouri River. The points from which it is proved to have
sent supplies by other means than through the claimant are
not among those named, nor are they military posts, nor are
they on the west bank of the Missouri River. Omaha is not
among the posts named, nor is it one established after the
making of the contract. Hence there has been no breach
of the contract, and there is no liability in damages.
The judgment awarding damages in the sum of $35,689.01
is REVERSED, and the case is remitted to the Court of Olaims,
with directions to
DISMISS THE PETITION.

