584

RAILROAD COMPANY v. RICHMOND.

[Sup. Ct.

Syllabus.

Tonnage Tax Cases, reported in 12th Wallace.* In these
cases the law of Alabama levied a tax at so much per ton
on all steamboats. The boats on which the tax was levied
were owned by citizens of the State, and were employed
exclusively in the internal commerce of the State, over
which Congress has no control. This court, while conceding the full power of the State to tax the property of its
citizens, held that the inhibition in the Federal Constitution
prevented the State from taxing in this mode. Much more
does this inhibition apply when the vessels are owned by
citizens of another State, and are engaged in commerce between the States, over which Congress has control.
DECREE AFFIRMED.

RAILROAD COMPANY V. RICHMOND ET AL.
1. The act of Congress of June 15th, 1866, authorizing every railroad company in the United States, whose road was operated by steam, and its
successors and assigns, to carry upon and over its road, boats, bridges,
and ferries all passengers, troops, government supplies, mails, freight,
and property, on their way from one State to another State, and to receive compensation therefor, and to connect with roads of other States
so far as to form continuous lines for the transportation of the same to
their place of destination; and the act of July 25th, 1866, authorizing
the construction of certain bridges over the Mississippi River, and among
others a bridge connecting Dubuque with Dunleith, in the State of Illinois, and providing that the bridges, when constructed, should be free
for the crossing of all trains of railroads terminating on either side of
the river, for reasonable compensation, were designed to remove trammels upon transportation between different States, interposed by State
enactments or by existing laws of Congress, and were not intended to
interfere with private contracts and annul such as had been made on the
basis of existing legislation and existing means of interstate communication.
2. Contracts valid when made, continue valid, and capable of enforcement,
so long as peace lasts between the governments of the contracting parties, notwithstanding a change in the conditions of business which originally led to their creation.
Page 204.

Oct. 1873.]

RAILROAD COMPANY V. RICHMOND.
Statement of the case.

2. The power to regulate commerce among the several States was vested in
Congress in order to secure equality and freedom in commercial intercourse against discriminating State legislation; it was not intended that
the power should be exercised so as to interfere with private contracts
not designed at the time they were made to create impediments to such
intercourse.
4 Accordingly, a contract between a railroad company and an elevator
company, that the latter company, in consideration of erecting and
using for that purpose an elevator, should have for a prescribed term
the handling, at a stipulated price, of all grain brought by the railroad
company in its cars to the city of Dubuque, on the Mississippi River, to
be transmitted to a place beyond, did not cease to be valid and binding
upon the parties because afterwards, by the construction of a railroad
bridge across the Mississippi at Dubuque it became unnecessary for the
railroad company or its lessee, and a useless expense to it, to have the
grain brought by it to Dubuque handled at that place. The enforcement of the contract after the construction of the bridge was not an
interference with the power of Congress to regulate commerce between
the States.
ERROR

to the Supreme Court of the State of Iowa; the

case being thus:
On the 22d of August, 1860, the Dubuque and Sioux City
Railroad Company and the Dubuque Elevator Company,
corporations, created both by the laws of Iowa, entered into
a contract by which the elevator company was to construct
an elevator for receiving, storing, handling, and delivering
grain brought by the cars of the railroad company to Dubuque City. On the 2d of January, 1861, a supplemental
agreement relating to the same subject was entered into between the same companies; the two contracts, as the court
held, being, to be considered together as forming one.
By that contract the elevator company, on its part, stipulated, among other things, to erect on land leased from the
railroad company, situated at Dubuque, in the State of Iowa,
a building suitable for receiving, storing, delivering, and
handling all grain that should be received by the cars or the
railroad company, not otherwise consigned, and to make
such additions to the building from time to time as the business of the company might require; to receive and discharge
at Dubuque for the company all through grain-by which
was meant all grain transmitted, by the terms of shipment,

RAILROAD

COMPANY V. RICHMOND.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

through that place to some point beyond-at one cent a
bushel, and make no charge for storage unless the grain
was in store more than ten days, and then only at certain
specified rates; and, at the end of fifteen years, the term of
the lease, to renew the contract for another fifteen years, or,
at the option of the railroad company, accept payment for
its buildings, machinery, and other property used in conducting its business.
And the railroad company, on its part, stipulated that it
would not erect a similar building for receiving, storing,
delivering, and handling grain at Dubuque, or lease to any
others the right to erect any such building; that the elevator
company should have the handling at Dubuque of all through
grain, and be paid one cent a bushel for receiving and discharging the same, and the compensation designated for
storage when it exceeded ten days.
The elevator company erected the buildings required,
sufficient and'suitable for the purposes intended, and had
always been ready to carry out its stipulations.
On the 13th of September, 1867, the Dubuque and Sioux
City Railroad Company leased its road and other property
to the Illinois Central Railroad Company. In this'lease the
Illinois company expressly assumed the contract mentioned,
made with the elevator company, and soon afterwards entered into possession of the leased property, and commenced
transferring grain from Dubuque across the Mississippi
River, which had been brought to that point in the cars of
the Dubuque and Sioux City Railroad Company. But it
did not regard the stipulations of the contract with the elevator company, or only partially performed them; grain
was shipped through Dubuque without being delivered to
or handled by that company, and without payment of the
charges which it claimed as entitled to under the contract;
and the present suit was brought in a District Court of the
State of Iowa by one Richmond, who had succeeded to the
rights of the elevator company, to enforce the contract.
The defence was that the contract as now sued on was
repugnant to what is called "the commercial power of Con-

Oct. 1873.]

RAILROAD COMPANY V. RICnMOND.

587

Statement of the case.

gress" (the power given to Congress by the Constitution
"to regulate commerce among the several States"), as that
power had been exercised in two several acts now to be
spoken of: one was "An act to facilitate commercial, postal,
and military communication among the several States,"*
passed June 15th, 1866, the preamble and part of the first
section of which were as follows:
"Whereas, the Constitution of the United States confers on
Congress, in express terms, the power to regulate commerce
among the several States, to establish post-roads, and to raise
and support armies; therefore,
"Be it enacted, That every railroad company in-the United
States, whose road is operated by steam, its successors and
assigns, be, and is hereby, authorized to carry upon and over
its road, boats, bridges, and ferries, all passengers, troops, government supplies, mails, freight, and property on their way
from any State to another State, and to receive compensation
therefbr, and to connect with roads of other States, so as to
form continuous lines for the transportation of the same to the
place of destination."
The other was "An act to authorize the construction of
certain bridges, and to establish them as post-roads," passed
July 25th, 1866,t and authorizing any person or corporation,
with the coiusent of the two States named, to construct and
maintain a bridge across the Mississippi, between Dubuque
in Iowa and Dunleith in Illinois; "and to lay on and over said
bridge rail way tracks for the more perfect connection of any railroads that are or shall be constructed to the said river at or opposite said poijt, and when constructed all trains of all ro.ads terndnating at said river at or opposite said point, shall be allowed to
cross said bridge for reasonable compensation to be made to the
owners of said bridge," under certain conditions which the
act provided.
The District Court denied the force of the defence set up
as abovementioned, and gave a judgment in favor of the
elevator company for a part of the money claimed.
*14 Star. at Large, 66.

t 1.b. 244.

688

RAILROAD COMPANY V. RICHMOND.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

The case coming for review to the Supreme Court, that
court also denied the validity of the defence, and adjudged
that the Constitution and the acts of Congress relied on by
the railroad company did not in any manner affect the validity or force and efibect of either of the contracts.
To review this judgment the defendants sued out a writ of
error from this court under the twenty-fifth section of the
Judiciary Act, and contended here, as in the court below,
that the contract sued on was repugnant to the commercial
power of Congress as exercised in the passage of the two
acts referred to, and in contravention of the public policy
established thereby.
Mr. . F. Wilson, for the plaintiff in error; Messrs. Pratt
Smith and J. M. Grifth, contra.
Mr. Justice FIELD, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court, as follows:
There is no question about the power of the Dubuque
and Sioux City Railroad Company to make the contract in
controversy with the elevator company; and if there were
any, it would not be one within our province, upon the present appeal, to decide. The railroad company was obliged
to discharge the grain it carried in its cars at the terminus
of its road; and in securing the use of an elevator it provided the least expensive and the most expeditious mode
for that purpose. The period for which the contract should
be made, like other contracts for service, was one which
rested in the discretion of the companies. No rule of law
limited the period of its continuance. The occurrence of
subsequent events, rendering it of more or less value to
either of the parties, could not affect its validity or justify
any violation of its provisions.
The plaintiffs in error contend-we quote their own ]angoage-" that the contract sued on in this action is repugnant to the commercial power of Congress, as exercised in
the passage of the acts of June 15th, 1866, and July 25th,
1 W6, and in contravention of the publio polivy established

Oct. 1873.]

RAILROAD COMPANY V. RICHMOND.
Opinion of the court.

thereby." The act of Congress of June 15th, 1866, authorized every railroad company in the United States, whose
road was operated by steam, and its successors and assigns,
to carry upon and over its road, boats, bridges, and ferries,
all passengers, troops, government supplies, mails, freight,
and property, on their way from one State to another State,
and to receive compensation therefor, and to connect with
roads of other States so far as to form continuous lines for
the transportation of the samne to their place of destination.
The act of July 25th, 1866, authorized the construction of
certain bridges over the Mississippi River, and among others
a bridge connecting Dubuque with Dunleith, in the State of
Illinois, and provided that the bridges, when constructed,
should be free for the crossing of all trains of railroads terminating on either side of the river, for reasonable compensation.
These acts were passed under the power vested in Congress to regulate commerce among the several States, and
were designed to remove trammels upon transportation between different States, which had previously existed, and to
prevent the creation of such trammels in future, and to
facilitate railway transportation by authorizing the constroction of bridges over the navigable waters of the Mississippi.
But they were intended to reach trammels interposed by
State enactments or by existing laws of Congress. They
were not intended, even if it were competent for Congress
to authorize any such proceeding, to invade the domain of
private contracts, and annul all such as had been made on
the basis of existing legislation and existing means of interstate communication. Contracts valid when made, continue
valid, and capable of enforcement, so long, at least, as peace
lasts between the governments of the contracting parties,
notwithstanding a change in the conditions of business which
originally led to their creation.
The power to regulate commerce among the several States
was vested in Congress in order to secure equality and freedoni in commercial intercourse against discriminating State
legislation; it was never intended that the power should be

590

RAILROAD COMPANY V. RICrMOND.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

exercised so as to interfere with private contracts not designed at the time they were made to create impediments
to such intercourse.
The argument of the plaintiffs in error would lead to the
abrogation of all contracts of the Iowa Railroad Company
which might prove from subsequent events to be more onerous than contracts made after such events had happened.
A contract, for example, for the supply of coal for the
engines of the company, made upon terms which were at
the time reasonable, might be felt to be very hard and oppressive if, before its termination, the discovery of new fields
or coal in the vicinity of the road should reduce the market
price of the article one-half. To assert that the enforcement
of a contract of this kind would be repugnant to the commercial power of Congress, because the expenses of transportation would be less if the contract were annulled, would
not be more extraordinary than the position assumed by the
appellant in the present case, and would be equally entitled
to consideration.
When counsel speaks of the public policy established by
the acts of Congress mentioned, he must mean nothing more
than that the acts were intended to facilitate commercial
intercourse among the States. Undoubtedly such was the
case, and it is of great public interest that such intercourse
should be free and untrammelled. But if comparisons may
be made with respect to a subject of this nature, we should
say that the observance of good faith between parties, and
the upholding of private contracts, and enforcing their obligations, are matters of higher moment and importance to
the public welfare, and far more reaching in their consequences.
DECREE AFFIRMED.

