UNITED STATES V. JONAS.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

UNITED STATES V. JONAS.
1. The act of March 8d, 1863, entitled "1An act to prevent and punish frauds
upon the revenue, to provide for the more certain and speedy collection
of claims in favor of the United States, and for other purposes;" authorizing the Solicitor of the Treasury, "1with the approval of the Secretary of the Treasury," to sell at public sale, after three months' advertisement, certain lands acquired by the United States, for debt, &-c.,
qualifies and limits the powers of the said solicitor, given to him by the
act of May 29th, 1830, creating his office and prescribing his duties, and
authorizing him to sell such lands at private sale; and pro tanto repeals it.
2. The former act being thus repealed, and the latter one only in force, the
approval of the Secretary of the Treasury is an indispensable condition
to the validity of a sale made under the act by the solicitor.
3. The purchaser is not bound to accept a deed unless there be written evidence ofthis approval.
4. The approval of the secretary is not a fact to be presumed because the
deed of the solicitor is the deed of an official person, nor even because
it recites that the sale was made in pursuance of the act of 1863.

ERROR to the Circuit Court for the District of Louisiana.
An act of May 29th, 1830,* authorized "the appointment
of a Solicitor of the Treasury," prescribed his duties, &c.; and
enacted, among other things, that"The said solicitor shall have charge of all lands and other
property which have been or shall be assigned, set off, or conveyed to the United States in payment of debts; . . . and to
sell and dispose of lands assigned or set off to the United States
in payment of debts."

An act of March 3d, 1863, entitled "An act to prevent
and punish frauds on the revenue, to provide for the more
certain and speedy collection of claims in favor of the United
States, and for other purposes,"t in its ninth section, enacts:
"That fb the purpose of realizing as.much as may properly
be done, from unproductive lands and other property of'the United
States, acquired under judicial proceedings or otherwise, in the
* 4 star. at Large, 414.

t 12 Id. 740,

9.

Oct. 1873.]

UNITED STATES V.

JONAS.

Statement of the case.

collection of debts, the Solicitor of the Treasury be, and he is
hereby authorized, with the approval of the Secretary of the Treasury, to rent for a period not exceeding three years, or sell any
such lands, or other property, at public sale, after advertising

the time, place, and conditions of such sale for three months
preceding the same, in some newspaper published in the vicinity
thereof, in such manner and upon such terms as may in hisjudgmnent be most advantageous to the public interests."
These acts being in force, the Solicitor of the Treasury
put up for sale at auction certain land, with houses upon
it, in New Orleans, which a debtor of the United States
had conveyed to it in payment of debt. The land was bid
off by George Jonas for $30,000. A deed was tendered to
him. The deed purported to be made between,,E. C. Banfield, Solicitor of the Treasury of the United
States, duly appointed and qualified as such, and herein acting
in such capacity for and on behalf of the United States of
America, party hereto of the first part, and George Jonas, of
the city of New Orleans, State of Louisiana, party hereto of the
second part."
It properly recited that the land had been transferred and
set over to the United States in payment of a debt due to it.
It further recited that "under the provisions of section nine
of an act of the Congress of the United States of America,
entitled 'An act to prevent and punish frauds upon the
revenue, to provide for the more certain and speedy collection of claims in favor of the United States, and for other
purposes,' approved March 3d, 1863," and after due and
legal notice on certain days and in certain newspapers (all
particularly specified), the land had been exposed to sale at
public auction, at the St. Charles Auction Exchange, and
that Jonas had bought it.
It concluded:
"In witness whereof the said E. C. Banfield, Solicitor of the
Treasury, as aforesaid, hath hereunto set his hand and caused
his seal of office to be affixed the day and year first aboremen.
tioned."

UNITED STATES V.

JONAS.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

And E. 0. Banfield, Solicitor of the Treasury, signed it.
But there was nothing in, on, or about, with or apart from
the deed, to show that the sale was made with the approval
of the Secretary of the Treasury. This deed Jonas refused
to accept. The land was thereupon again put up for sale
"on account and at the risk of the said George Jonas,"
and sold for $21,500; and the United States sued Jonas in
the court below for $8500, the difference between the sums
bid at the sales.

The point of the controversy was whether the consent and
approval of the Secretary of the Treasury is necessary to
authorize the sale and conveyance of property acquired by
the United States under judicial proceedings, or otherwise,
in the collection of debts.
The government contended, and asked the court so to
charge, that the law did not require "a tender to defendant,
as a part of the proof of title, of the written approvalor consent
of the Secretary of the Treasury to said sale or transfer of
said property, in any form, in order to convey a complete
title." This the court declined to do, and charged "that
unless the deed of conveyance of the property executed by
the solicitor, tendered by the United States to Jonas, at the
time when it was tendered to him, bore upon its face, or by
means of papers connected therewith, written proof, certain
and patent to the defendant, that the Secretary of the Treasury had, in accordance with section nine of the act of March
3d, 1863, approved and authorized the sale of the property
at auction by the Solicitor of the Treasury, then that no such
deed was tendered as would convey to him a complete and
undoubted title," and that he "could not be compelled to
pay the loss in price resulting from the second sale." The
United States excepted; and judgment having gone for the
defendant the government brought the case here.
The question, therefore, for decision was, whether the
approval of the Secretary of the Treasury was necessary to
the sale or transfer of the property in question, and if so,
whether it was incumbent on the plaintiffh to produce this

Oct. 1873.]

UNITED STATES V. JONAS.
Argument for the United States.

approval when the deed was tendered, in order to put the
defendant in fault so as to subject him to suit.
Mr. C. H. -Hill, Assistant Attorney-General,for the United
States:
1. Had the act of 1863 not been enacted, the sale to Jonas
would have been clearly binding on him, and the deed
offered to him clearly good. Then the question is, whether
the act of 1863 was intended to quality and limit the powers
originally given by the act of 1830, or whether rather it was
intended to confer additional powers upon the Solicitor of
the Treasury ?
Repeals by implication of acts are not favored,* and yet
if the act of 1863 has the force which the defendant contends it has, it must have repealed in a manner only implied, a large part of the act of 1830.
The two statutes may be reconciled by confining the act
of 1863 to unproductive property only, which may be done
by construing the words "and other property" as ejusdem
qeneris with the property first mentioned, namely, unproductive land; that is to say, property of an uncertain value,
which it is best should be sold at public auction; and leaving the powers of the Solicitor of the Treasury, under the
act of 1830, to dispose generally of the property of the
United States, unaffected by the later statute.
If the power conferred by the act of 1830 to sell this land
remains unimpaired, then the recital in the deed that it was
done under the act of 1863 cannot affect the validity of the
sale, if the Solicitor of the Treasury had power to make it;
nor would the fact that it was sold by auction; for the act
of 1830 is silent as to the mode of sale.
If, however, the act of 1863 repeals the act of 1830, or
qualifies it, the Solicitor of the Treasury has no longer power
to sell any of the property of the United States by private
sale. This restriction would cripple his power to an extent
that it can be well conceived would often be very detrimental
to the public.
United States v. Tynen, 11 Wallace, 92.

UNITED STATES V. JONAS.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

2. But if this sale, in order to be sustained, must have
been made in conformity with the act of 1863, then the
court will presume the approval of the Secretary of the
Treasury. It is not necessary that his approval should appear either in the conveyance or be matter of record in any
respect.
The Solicitor of the Treasury is a public officer performing public duties, and it is a very maxim of the law that
where acts are of an official nature, or require the concurrence of official persons, a presumption arises in favor of
their due execution. In these cases the rule is "Omnia
prcsumunturrile et solenniter esse acta donec probeturin contrariurn."*
The approval of the Secretary of the Treasury is not a
muniment of title, but is a matter collateral to the title, with
which the grantee of the property had nothing to do. The
deed of conveyance of the Solicitor of the Treasury transferred the title. The question whether the secretary had
approved it, is a matter between the government and the
solicitor, and not a thing essential in order to make title.
Mr. P. Phillips, contra.
Mr. Justice DAVIS delivered the opinion of the court.
It is quite apparent that the law will not compel the purchaser in this case to comply with the terms of sale and accept
the deed offered, unless the Solicitor of the Treasury, who
made the sale and executed the deed, has undoubted authority to do both these things. The officer was created by act
of Congress of 29th of May, 1830, and among the duties
assigned to him by the first section is the charge of property
conveyed to the United States in payment of debts, with
power to sell and dispose of the same. It may be that it
was the intention of Congress that the important powers
thus conferred should be exercised independently of the
* Bank of the United States v. Dandridge, 12 Wheaton, 69, 70; Apthorp
v. North, 14 Massachusetts, 167; Broom's Maxims (6th American edition),
908, 909, and cases there collected.

Oct. 1873.]

UNITED STATES V.

JONAS.

Opinion of the court.

Secretary of the Treasury, although it is clearly the policy
of the law to hold the head of the department responsible
fbr the proper administration of the governmental functions
which pertain to it. It is, however, not necessary to consider the point, lecause the act of the 3d of March, 1863, to
"prevent frauds on the revenue and provide for the certain
and speedy collection of claims in fivor of the United States,"
has not only in terms placed the Solicitor of the Treasury
in subordination to the secretary in the matter of selling
the property of the United States taken in payment of debts,
but has deprived him of the power of selling at private sale
at all-a power liable to abuse, and which the interests of
the government require should not be confided to any one.
In the ninth section of this act the solicitor is authorized to
sell, with the approval of the secretary, and not then except
at public sale, on three months' notice of the time, place, and
terms of sale, advertised in some newspaper published in
the vicinity of the property. It is clear that this latter act
was intended to qualify and limit the powers given by the
act of 1830. It covers the whole subject of the disposition
of lands acquired for debts due the government, and embraces new and salutary provisions in relation to their sale,
and shows clearly that Congress, instead of conferring additioial powers, intended to limit those already conferred.
Such being the case, the latter act must operate as a repeal
pro (tatoof the act of 1830.
It is urged that the two acts can be reconciled if the latter
one is confined to unproductive property, but neither the
letter nor spirit of this act would warrant any such interpretation. It is true the sale or lease for a limited period
of unproductive lands is provided for, but the same provisions apply to other property obtained by the government in
payn, nt of debts due it. Indeed, no good reason can bo
assigned why the disposition of unproductive lands should
be subject to the approval of the secretary, and other property, which, in this case, consisted of valuable real estate in
the city of New Orleans, with buildings on it, be left to the
sole lisposal of a subordinate officer. All property of what,

604

UNITED

STATES V. JONAS.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

ever kind obtained in the way pointed out is embraced
within the scope of the statute. If the Congress of 1830
intended that the Solicitor of the Treasury should be the
sole judge or the propriety of selling the property of the
United States taken in payment of debts, the Congress of
1863 thought proper to abandon that policy, and to declare
that iii no .ase should ihere be a sale without the approval
of the Secretary of the Treasury. It went further and said
that all sales should be at public auction, and gave the power
to lease for a limited time, but whether the property were
leased or sold, the secretary should be first consulted and
his consent obtained, and all persons given a fair and equal
opportunity of buying. The system thus inaugurated did
away with the objections to private sales, and made the Secretary of the Treasury responsible, as he should be, for the
proper administration of this branch of the public service.
The next point to be considered is, whether the defendant was obliged to comply with the terms of sale on tender
of the deed. This deed was executed by E. 0. Banfield,
and recites that, acting in the capacity of Solicitor of the
Treasury, under the ninth section of the act of 1863, he had
caused the property to be exposed at public sale, but it does
not contain any recital that the secretary authorized the sale,
nor was any evidence offered to the defendant in connection
with the deed that this authority had been obtained.
It is manifest, if any effect is to be giveln the act invoked
by the solicitor as the basis of his authority, that he could
not proceed at all without the approval of his superior. The
legislation of Congress would be wholly ineffectual to prevent the evils which it was designed to remedy, if this approval should not be treated as a substantial requirement, a
thing essential to give validity to the sale. The question is
one of power, and the power is given to sell when the secretary thinks it advisable to do so. His approval is a condition precedent, without which the solicitor has no authority
whatever to act.
It is said, however, if this be so, that the court will pre-

Oct. 1873.]

UNITED STATES V.

JONAS.

Opinion of the court.

sume this approval, and that it is not necessary that it should
appear either in the conveyance or in any other mode. It
would defeat the obvious purpose of Congress, which is to
be considered in the construction of a statute, to dispense
with proof of this approval. One of the main obj'ects of
the statute was to subject the action of the solicitor to the
control of the secretary in a matter of great public concern,
in which he had heretofore acted without control. This
change of the system contemplated a change in the mode
of proceeding on the part of the solicitor. If this were not
so, there would be no security that the solicitor would not
continue to sell property as he had been accustomed to sell
it. Indeed, the very sale in question is defended on the
ground that the power conferred by the act of 1830 remains
unimpaired by the act of 1863, and the action of the solicitor
in this case furnishes a potent argument against the rule of
presumption contended for. As the important power of
selling the property of the United States acquired in payment of debts can only be exercised by the solicitor with the
approval of the secretary, there would seem to be the best
of reasons for requiring some written evidence of this approval, not only fir the security of the purchaser, but for
the protection of the government.
The defendant, therefore, is not in default, because there
is nothing in the record to show that this consent of the
secretary had been obtained.
If the authority to make the sale had been delegated to
the solicitor alone, and its exercise confided to his discretion,
his acts would carry with them prima facie evidence that
they were within the scope of his authority. But where the
power is divided there must be joint action before any pre.
snmption can arise.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

