Oct. 1873

)

THE LUCILLE.

73

Statement of the case.

THE LUCILLE.
1. An appei.. In admiralty from the District to the Circuit Court in effect
vacates 6ia decree of the District Court, and a new trial in all respects,
and a new decree, are to be had in the Circuit Court. The latter must
execute its own decree, and the District Court has nothing more to do
with the case.
2. An order of the Circuit Court merely affirming the decree of the District
Court, a-d nothing more, is not such a decree as the Circuit Court
should rander, and is not a final decree from which an appeal lies to
this cour3.
ON motion to dismiss, for want of jurisdiction, an appeal
in admiralty from the Circuit Court for the District of
Maryland.
The act of March d, 1803,* amendatory of the Judiciary
Act, enacts that "from all final decrees" rendered in any
Circuit Court in any cases of admiralty, "where the matter in
dispute, exclasive of costs, shall exceed the sum or value of
$2000," an appeal shall be allowed to this court.
This statute being in force, Nancy Repass libelled the
schooner Lucille, in the District Court for Maryland, for
damages; alleging a collision by the Lucille, whereby she
had been "damaged to the extent of $2000, for which she
claims reparation in this suit."
The libel concluded with a prayer, that "the court will
pronounce for the libellant's aforesaid demand, and for such
other and further relief and redress as to right and justice
appertain, and.as the court is competent to give in the
premises."
The court decreed in favor of the libellant for $2100.
The libellant, objecting to a decree for a sum larger than
that claimed, remitted, of record, $100, parcel of the said
sum; and the other side appealed to the Circuit Court, where
an order was entered affirming the decree below. The order
thus made, and from which the present appeal was taken,
was in the following words:
* 2 Stat. at Large, 244.

THE LUCILLE.

[SulF. at.

Opinion of the court.

"It is, this 27th day of May, A.D. 1872, adjudged and ordered
that the decree of the District Court be, and the same is hereby,
affirmed, with costs."
It was this appeal that the libellant moved to dismiss.
Messrs. W. S. Bryan and T. A. Seth, in support of the motion:
The libellant never claimed more tban $2000, and when
more was decreed objected and remitted the surplus. "The

matter in dispute," in the Circuit Court, was, therefore, the
original decree, less the amount remitted; that is to say, it
was for $2000, and for no more. Not exceeding $2000 no
appeal to this court will lie. The matter in dispute means
the amount claimed on the one side and whose payment or
surrender is resisted on the other.
Mr. B. S. Matthews, contra:
The decreb in the District Court was for $2100, and by
the order of the Circuit Court that decree and no other is
affirmed. Exceeding thus $2000, an appeal will lie.
Mr. Justice MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.
Whatever may be the merit of the objection on which
the motion is founded, namely, that the above decree is not
for an amount exceeding $2000, we are of opinion that there
is not a final decree from which an appeal can be taken to
this court, and that this appeal must for that reason be dismissed.
An appeal in admiralty has the effect to supersede and
vacate the decree from which it is taken. A'new trial, completely and entirely new, with other testimony and other
pleadings, if necessary, or, if asked for, is contemplated,-a
trial in which the judgment of the court below is regarded
as though it had never been rendered. A new decree is to
be made in the Circuit Court. This decree is to be enforced
by the order of that court, and the record remains there.
The case is not sent back to the District Court for executing
the dectee, or for any other proceeding whatever, and that
court has nothing further to do with it. The decree should,

Oct. 1873.]

TiHE FALCON.
Syllabus.

therefore, be complete within itself. In the case before us,
the decree fixes no sum which the successful party is to recover. If any process is to be issued to enfbrce it, the clerk
must from the record of the District Court ascertain the
amount, or lie can issue no such process. But this is the
duty of the court, and not the clerk. It may be said that it
is, in such case as this, a mere matter of computation, and
in some cases it may be. But the one before us shows that
it is not always so, for the only question argued by counsel
on this motion is, whether the judgment affirmed is for
$2000 or $2100-for the amount after the remittitur or before. No final decree of a court which enforces its own
judgments ought to be left in such condition that the record
of another court is the only evidence of the amount recovered by the successful party. An order affirming a decree
in another court is neither in express terms nor by necessary
implication a judgment or decree for the amount of the
judgment or decree in that court. The costs of the lower
court, and the interest on its judgment to the date of the
decree or judgment on appeal, are to be added to it, and,
though they nmia be computed by the clerk, they should
have the judicial consideration of the court. According to
these views, there is no final decree such as the law intends
in the Circuit Court in this case, and the appeal is
DISMISSED.

Mr. Justice CLIFFORD dissented.

THE FALCON.
1. A steamer running at the rate of from eight to ten knots an hour, on a
bright moonlight night, in tin open bay, with nothing to mislead her,
condemned for the loss of a schooner sailing with a six-knot breeze,
whose only fault was alleged to be a false mancuvre in the moment of
impending collision. The court declares it to have been the "duty of
the steamer to see the schooner as soon as she could be seen, to watch
her progress and direction, to take into account all the circumstances of
the situation, and so to govern herself as to guard against peril to either

vessel."

