Oct. 1873.]

SALOMON V. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the case.

White, as declared in the petition, was the real owner of the
claim, and that the suit was prosecuted for his benefit. In
assisting to carry o-n this suit, Stowe adopted the proceeding
on which it was based, and in effect notified the defendants
that they could safely settle the cause of action with the
attorney of record. Besides, in taking charge of it after
the settlement and asking leave to amend the petition, he
recognized the authority of the counsel who instituted it;
and it is very clear, that The amendment which he was permitted to file, could not affect rights acquired while the suit
as originally framed was pendig.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

SALOMON V. UNITED STATES.
1. The act of June, 1862, requiring contracts for military supplies to be in
writing, is not infringed by the proper officer having charge of such
matter accepting delivery of such supplies after the day stipulated, nor
is a verbal agreement to extend the time of performance invalid.
2. When, under a written contract, made by a person to deliver such supplies as, ex. gr., corn at one time fixed, the quartermaster in charge receives part of the corn from such person for the government, and then
at a later date, no objection being made to the delay, receives the rest,
and gives a receipt and voucher for the amount and the price, and the
government uses such part of it as it wants, and suffers the remainder
to decay by exposure and neglect, there is an implied contract to pay the
value of such corn, which value may, in the absence of other testimony,
be presumed to be the price fixed in the voucher by the quartermaster.

from the Court of Claims; the case being thus:
A statute of June 2d, 1862,* thus enacts:
APPEAL

"It shall be the duty of the Secretary of War, Secretary of
the Navy, &c., to cause and require every contract made by
them severally on behalf of the government, or by their officers
under them appointed, to be reduced to writing, and signed by
the contracting parties with their names at the end thereof."
* 12 Stat. at Large, 411.

VOL.

x.

2

SALOMON V. UNITED STATES.

Esup. Ct.

Argument for the appellant.

This statute being in force, Salomon entered into a written
contract, on the 28th of July, 1864, with the quartermaster's
department, to deliver at Fort Fillmore, 12,000 bushels of
corn, at such times and in such quantities, of not less than
1000 bushels per month, as the assistant quartermaster should
direct, 9000 bushels before the 1st day of January, and the
whole amount by the 1st day of May, 1865. The 9000
bushels were delivered and paid for before the 1st day of
May, and about this there was no dispute. Some negotiations took place afterwards between Salomon and the quartermaster of that military department, concerning the delivery of the remainder, the finding in regard to which was
not very clear. Salomon did, however, deliver the remainder of the corn at Fort Fillmore, October 15th, 1865, by
depositing it in the military storehouse at that place. The
chief quartermaster's clerk afterwards examined this corn,
weighed some of the sacks, counted the remainder, and gave
to Salomon a receipt for the amount, stating that it completed
his contract. This clerk then and there accepted and took
actual possession of the corn, and the chief quartermaster
gave to Salomon the usual voucher for the sum due. The
corn was sound when delivered, but was injured by reason
of the defective and leaky condition of the storehouse at
Fort Fillmore.
The government declining to pay the amount of the
voucher, Salomon filed a petition in the court below for payment. The court decreed that he should be paid for a part
of what he had finally delivered, and which the government
used, but not for the residue, which had proved unserviceable and been lost by decay arising from the defective and
leaky condition of the storehouse. Salomon took this appeal.
Mr. T. T D. Faller,for the appellant:
No complaint is made by the government of the nondelivery of the whole amount by the 1st of May, nor does
it appear in any manner that the contract was closed, or
treated as closed. For aught that appears, the United States

Oct. 1873.]

SALOMON

V). UNITED

19

STATES.

Opinion of the court.

received all they wished, up to the 1st of May. Certain it is
that they accepted the residue when it was tendered; and
if, through their fault, a part has been lost by bad storage
the appellant should not suffer.
31r. C. HT. Hill, Assistant Attorney-General, contra:
The claimant cannot recover for the corn for which this
suit is brought under the original contract, as that was ended
by his failure to deliver the corn mentioned therein within
the time specified.
If, therefore, there was any agreement by the quartermaster to buy the grain mentioned in the claimant's petition, it was an oral contract, and contrary to the act of 1862,
requiring all such contracts to be in writing.
.Reply: The contract, so far as the corn in question is concerned, was an entire one, and the acceptance and use of a
part was an acceptance of the.whole. There was no new
contract. Parol evidence of the enlargement of the time
of performance, in a written contract, is admissible in evidence.* By implication, or necessary intendment, here was
an extension of time for the delivery of the corn. The decree of the court below is in conflict with Lyon v. Bertrarn.t
Mr. Justice MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.
Whether we regard the delivery made in October as made
under a verbal extension of the time stipulated in the original contract, or consider it as a new transaction in which the
government received and took possession of the corn, and
used part of it and permitted the remainder to be injured in
its hands, we think the claimant is equally entitled to be
paid for it.
The act of 1862, requiring contracts for military supplies
to be in writing, is not infhinged by the proper officer having
charge of such matter, accepting delivery of such supplies
* Emerson v. Slater, 22 Howard, 42.

t 20 Id. 149.

MCCARTHY V. MANN.

[Sup. Ct.

Syllabus.

after the day stipulated, nor is a verbal agreement to extend
the time of performance invalid.
And if this were not so, when the quartermaster in charge
receives of a person corn for the government, gives a receipt
and voucher for the amount and the price, and the government uses such part of it as it wants, and suffers the remainder to decay by exposure and neglect, there is an implied contract to pay the value of such corn, which value
may, in the absence of other testimony, be presumed to be
the price fixed in the voucher by the quartermaster.
JUDGMENT REVERSED,

with directions to enter a judgment

for claimant for the
AMOUNT OF THE SAID VOUCHER.

MCQA'RTHY V. MANN.
A., on the 13th of February, 1850, made an entry and location, which
proved to be wholly void, of a land warrant on public land ; and then
conveyed to B. by deed with fall covenants. B. conveyed to C by a
similar sort of deed; and C. conveyed to D., not by deed like the two
just mentioned, but by a mere quit-claim; quit-claiming, however, all
his right, title, &c, "both in law and equity, and as well in possession
as in expedrancy." The Commissioner of the General Land Office cancelled the entry, &c., and set it aside as void; and A. took back his
money. C. conveyed to D., and he to E., &c.
Congress now passed an act, enacting"That the entry of A., &o., be and the same is hereby allowed and reinstated
as of the date of said entry, so that the title to said lands may enure to the
benefit of hits grantees as far as he way have conveyed the same: Provided,

that the money . . . shall be again paid at said land office, and that thereupon
a patent shall issue in the name of said A. for said lands."
A. paid the money again, and got a patent reciting the act of Congress
conveying the lands to him in fee.
C., after the passage of this act of Congress, conceiving that the two deeds
with full covenants had by the process of estoppel vested him Tith a
good title, but that his own deed of mere quit-claim had not vested his
grantee, D , with any title through that means, or in any way, conveyed
de nero to F. Held, That the act of Congress did vest im, through

