Oct. 1873.]

ELDRED V. SEXTON.

Syllabus.

2. Nor can the motion be sustained for the other reason
set forth, as it is certain that the decree against the appellants here in favor of two of the respective appellees exceeds
the sum of $2000. True, the sums recovered by the other
three appellees respectively were not sufficient to 'give this
court jurisdiction, but the motion is to dismiss the appeal,
which must be denied, as the decree in fa~vor of the two
libellants first named in the decree is, as it respects each of
those, greater than $2000, when the interest allowed by the
Circuit Court to the date of the decree is included with the
principal.* Interest to that date being specifically allowed
by the decree must be included with the principal in order
to determine what "the sum or value in dispute was" at
the time the appeal was taken and allowed.
MOTION DENIED.

ELDRED V. SEXTON.
The fundamental principle established by the act of Congress of April 24th,
1820, and since governing the matter of sales of the public lands, that
private entries are not permitted until after the lands have been exposed to public auction at the price for which they are afterwards sold,
held to be applicable to a case-that of the grant by Congress, June 3d,
1856, of alternate sections designated by odd numbers, to the State of
Wisconsin for the aid of the Chicago and Northwestern Railway.
There, after the line of the railroad was located and the price of sections
within six miles designated by even numbers, doubled, that is to say
fixed at $2 50 per acre, and after these were offered at public sale at tlun
price and remained unsold, so that thenceforth they became open to
private entry at $2.50, but not at less, the line of the road was changed
by joint resolution of Congress, leaving outside of the six mile limits
certain of these even sections; the joint resolution providing that the
even sections of public lands "rese-rved to the United States by the act
of June 3d, 1856 (the original grant), along the originally located route
ot railroad, and along which 2o railroadhas been constacled, shall here.
after be sold at $1.25 per acre."
* The Patapsco, 12 Wallace, 451.

ELDRED V. SEXTON.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.
Held, notwithstanding this provision that the "fundamental principle"
above spoken of, was of so pervading a character, that although these
sections, while within the six miles limit, had been offered at public sale
at $2 50 and refused, they were not open to private entry now that by
the change of location they were without that limit, until they had been
offered for public sale at $1.25 per acre, and had been left unsold.

ERROR to the Supreme Court of Wisconsin; the case being
thus:
An act of Congress, approved April 24th, 1820,* laid down
the following general law about the public lands:
"The price at which the public lands shall be offered for sale
shall be $1.25 an acre, and at every public sale the highest bidder
who shall make payment as aforesaid shall be the purchaser;
but no land shall be sold either at public or private sale for a less
price than 81.25 an acre; and all the public lands which shall have
been offered at public sale before the first day of July next, and
which shall then remain unsold, as well as the lands that shall
thereafter be offered at public sale, according to law, and remain
unsold at the close of such public sales, shall be subject to be
sold at private sale, by entry at the land office, at $1.25 an acre,
to be paid at the time of making such entry as aforesaid," &c.
This statute being in force as the general regulation about
public lands, Congress, by an act of June 3d, 1856,t in order
to aid the construction of a line of railroad from Fond du
Lac, at the south end of Lake Winnebago, in the State of
Wisconsin, northerly, to the north line of the said State,
granted to the said State of Wisconsin every alternate section of land designated by odd numbers, for six sections in
width, on each side or the road. In pursuance of a wellsettled policy of the government on the subject, the price
of the even-numbered sections remaining to the United
States was doubled, and the act declared,
"Nor shall any of said lands become subject to private entry
until the same shall have first been offered at public sale at the
increased price."
* 3 Stat. at Large, 666.

t 11 Id. 20O.

Oct. 1873.]

ELDRED V. SEXTON.

191

Statement of the case.

This land grant, by the legislature of Wisconsin, became
vested in the Chicago and Northwestern Railway Company,
which had, before the 3d of May, 1859, located the line of
its road, so that certain lands, the subject.of the controversy
in this .case, were within the prescribed limits. Up to that
day they had never been brought into market, but upon
that (lay, by proclamation of the President, they were offered
for sale at $2.50 per acre. Not being sold, they remained
subject to private entry at that sum. A change in the route
of the road being desirable, Congress was asked to authorize
it, and this was done by the joint resolution of April 25th,
1862.*
Tie first section of the resolution authorized a change of
the location of the line of the railroad.
The third and fourth sections of the resolution were thus:
"SECTION 3. The Secretary of the Interior is hereby authorized to cause all even sections or parts of even sections of
public land that may be brought within six miles of the new
line of railroad, to be sold at the same price and in the same
manner as those have been upon the originally located route.
And all purchasers, or their heirs or assigns, within the sixmile limits of the said originally located route who shall be
more than six miles from the new line, and who have paid the
sum of $2.50 an acre, shall have the right either to exchange
their locations upon the line as first established to the new line,
upon the same terms, in like quantities, and in the same manner
as on the line first established; or, at their option, to enter,
without further payment, anywhere within the Mlenasha land
district, in the State of Wisconsin, an additional quantity of
public lands subject to private entry, at $1.25 an acre, equal to
the quantity entered by them at $2.50 an acre, so that the lands
originally entered by them shall thus be reduced to the rate of
$1.25 an acre.
"SEcTIoN 4. The even sections of public lands, reserved to
the United States by the aforesaid act of June 3d, 1856, along
the originally located route of railroad north of the said town
of Appleton, and along which no railroad has been constructed,
shall hereafter be sold at $1.25 an acre."
*

12 Stat. at Large, 618.

ELDRED V.

SEXTON.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the plaintiff in error.

A change in the route of the road was made, which left
the lands now in question outside of the new limits. After
this, but before any public offr of the lands for sale at the
reduced price, one Eldred applied to the register and receiver of the local land office, and in 1865 and 1866 was
allowed to enter them at the price of $1.25 per acre. The
entries, however, were subsequently cancelled by the Commissioner of the General Land Office, on the ground that
when they were made the lands were not subject to private
entry at such minimum price, and this decision, on appeal,
was affirmed by the Secretary of the Interior. On the cancellation of the entries the lands were offered at public sale
at the minimum price of $1.25 an acre, and not being sold
were subsequently purchased at private entry at that price
by one Sexton, to whom patents were issued in 1870.
Hereupon, Eldred filed a bill in one of the State courts
of Wisconsin to have Sexton declared a trustee for him, and
to have a surrender of the patents, and conveyance of all
Sexton's riglits to him.
The court decreed against the complainant; and that decree being affirmed in the Supreme Court of the State, the
case was brought here by him for review.
The sole question was whether the action, as above stated,
of the Commissioner of the General Land Office and of the
Secretary of the Interior was correct. If correct, it was
conceded that the defendant's title, obtained subsequently,
could not be impeached. If incorrect, the defendant was
to be treated as a trustee holding the legal title for the
plaintiff.
The solution of the question depended, of course, upon
the effect to be given to the land-grant legislation, already
quoted, for the benefit of Wisconsin.
Mr. J. P. C. Cottrill,for the plaintiff in error:
When and how the public lands shall become subject to
private entry at the minimum price does not depend upon
any mere practice of the land department of the government,
or upon the "say so" of the public servants who administer

Oct. 1873.]

ELDRED V. SEXTON.
Argument for the plaintiff in error.

that department, but depends upon the enactments of Congress; and when these enactments have been complied with
so that the public lands once become subject to private entry, they remain so unless their condition is again changed
by force of law. There is no discretionary power reposed
in the officers of the land department by which they can
say that certain lands shall be in, the market subject to private entry to-day, and that to-morrow they shall not be.
Now, confessedly, at the close of the ofer of them at publie sale, on the 3d of May, 1859, these lands became and remained subject to private entry at the price of $2.50. And
they were thus subject to private entry, of course, at that
price when Congress passed its explanatory resolution.
Now, what does that resolution say? Simply that "they
shall be sold at $1.25 per acre." Congress of course knew
that the even sections within the six-miles limit were in the
market, subject to entry at $2.50 an acre. And, having this
knowledge before them, it is but respectful to that body to
infer that if it had been their intention to withdraw these
lands from market and not to subject them to private entry
until they bad again been offered at public sale at the minimum of $1.25 per acre, they could have expressed such intention in clear terms.
In the second section of the Land-Grant Act of June 3d,
1856, they did not leave it a matter of doubt or construction
as to whether the even sections within the six-mile limits of
the grant should become subject to private entry, by being
first offered at public sale at the ordinary minimum price of
$1.25 per acre, as provided by the general law, but expressly
enacted that they should first be offered at public sale at
the increased price.
The only change, therefore, produced upon these lands
by the joint resolution was, we submit, to reduce their price
from $2.50 to $1.25 per acre. In other respects they stood
in the same condition and situation to which they had been
brought by the force of other laws and the acts of the officers
and agents of the government under those laws.
Suppose that prior to the passage of the resolution, and
VOL XIX.

13

ELDRED V. SEXTON.[

[Sup. Ct,

Argument for the plaintiff in error.

while the line remained unchanged, and while the even sections within six miles of that line were in the market subject
to private entry at $2.50 per acre, a person had entered a
quarter section of land, and paid therefor $2.50 per acre.
Now if, after the passage of the resolution and the relocation of the line, this quarter section was not within the six
miles of the new line, the person would, under the third
section of the resolution, be entitled to enter another quarter
section at $1.25 per acre. Now, suppose that he actually
entered the additional quarter section, what would be the
practical result of the transaction in reference to the first
entry? Certainly that the first quarter section, by virtue of
the operation of the explanatory resolution, was in effect
entered at private entry at $1.25 per acre.
The theory of the government in this land-grant legislation has been, and is, that the public lands within six miles
of a railroad would be at least doubled in value by the location and construction of a road so near them, and that such
increased value was a compensation to the government for
giving the alternate sections to aid in the construction of the
road. Hence the price of $2.50 per acre within the six-mile
limits has always been deemed the equivalent of $1.25 without those limits. We say, therefore, that the offer of these
lands at public sale at the minimum price of $2.50 an acre,
while they were within the six-mile limits, was equivalent
to an offer of the same at the price of $1.25 when outside of
those limits. At the public offer of $2.50 per acre of lands
within the six-mile limits the lands had been refused, and
there was Lo sense in offering them, when put by the change
outside the limits, at $1.25 per acre. Practically, as we say,
they had been offered at that and refused. Congress so
viewed the matter, and intended, we submit, that they should
not be reoffered.
Nowhere, in all our legislation in reference to the public
domain, can a law be found which'requires lands that have
once become subject to private entry, and the price of which
may afterward be changed, to be again offered at public
sale, after the change in price, before they shall be subject

Oct. 1873.]

ELDRED V. SEXTON.
Opinion of the court.

to private entry, or, in other words, that a mere change in
price withdraws lands from market; and if auly such requiremet exists, it is based wholly upon the practice of the Land
Office; a vicious practice as :espects these lands, since it is
arrayed against a positive enactment of Congress as expressed in the explanatory resolution.
3Ar. S. U. Pinney, contra.
Mr. Justice DAVIS delivered the opinion of 'the court.
It is a fundamental principle underlying the land system
of this country that private entries are never permitted until
after the lands have been exposed to public auction, at the
price for which they are afterwards subject to entry.
They are first surveyed, then a day is appointed for their
sale by the President, which is to be kept open for two
weeks. At this sale they are offered at a minimum price,
and cannot be sold for less, but may be sold for as much
more as any one will give, and what remains unsold at the
close of such sale is subject to entry at that price.
There is an obvious reason for requiring a public sale before leaving the lands open to private entry. It is to secure
to all persons a fair and equal opportunity of purchasing
them, and to obtain for the government the benefit of competition in case the lands should be worth more than the
price fixed by Congress. This system commenced at "an
early period of our history, and was perfected in 1820. For
a period of twenty years, beginning with the commencement of this century, the public lands were sold on credit at
not less than two dollars an acre; but the mode of selling
on credit working badly, it was in 1820 abandoned, and the
price reduced to $1.25 per acre.*
Since that time the great body of the public domain has
been brought into market, after proper notice, at this reduced price, and, unless Congress by special act ordered
otherwise, private entries have never been allowed unless
2 Stat. at Large, 73: 3 Id. oz6.

ELDRED V. SEXTON.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

the land applied for had been previously offered at public
sale to the highest bidder at the same price. This has been
the established practice of the Land Office, sanctioned by the
law officers of the government, and recognized by this court
as a leading feature in our system of land sales.*
The inquiry arises whether Congress intended to change
this system in the new policy adopted by it, to aid States by
grants of lands to build railroads. This policy is of comparatively recent date, but there is nothing that we are
aware, in a~ny of the various acts on the subject, which tend
to show that it was the purpose of Congress, in its landgrant legislation, to alter the manner in which the public
lands had been brought into market and made subject to
Irivate entry. It is true the minimum price of the lands
withii certain prescribed limits was doubled, on the supposition thut the construction of the contemplated roads would
enhance the value of the lands to such an extent that the
government would be enabled to realize as much for them
as if the grants had not been made, but in all other respects
the general system for the disposition of public lands was
preserved. It is difficult, therefore, to see how the plaintiff
can succeed, unless the legislation on which he rests his
title was designed to be exceptional, which we think was
not the case. The grant was an ordinary one to build a
road in Wisconsin, for which a change of route was desirabre, after the line had been located. This change was
authorized by Congress, but before the line was relocated
the lands in question, being within the six-mile limit, had
been, at a public land sale, offered for sale at $2.50 per acre,
and not being sold, were sul)ject to entry at that price, but
not at any less sum. The location of the new route left
them outside of the required distance, and legislation was
necessary to take them out of the condition of lands affected
by the construction of a railroad, and to restore them to the
general body of the unsold lands, so that they could be sold
in the same manner and at the same price that the public
. Johnson v. Towsley, 13 Wallace, 88; Ohotard v. Pope, 12 Wheaton,
588; 2 Opit:ons of the Attorney-Generals, 200; 3 Id. 274; 4 Id. 167.

Oct. 1873.]

ELDBED V. SEXTON.
Opinion of the court.

domain is usually subject to sale.

This object was accom-

plished by the joint resolution of April 25th, 1862, which
declares that "these lands should hereafter be sold at $1.25
per acre." It is contended that this declaration fixed the.
price absolutely, and subjected them to private entry at that
price, without any further proceeding. This proposition is
based on the idea that Congress intended to adopt a different rule for the disposition of these lands from that which
had always obtained for the disposition of other public
lands; but there is nothing in the circumstances of this legislation which tends to prove an intentional abandonment
of a long-existing policy. Why make an exception in the
case of these lands? There was no exigency requiring it,
nor any reason to suppose that Congress had any purpose to
place them on a different footing from other government
lands for sale at $1.25 an acre. Such a purpose would conflict with the general land system, and disturb its harmony,
and cannot be imputed to Congress in the absence of an express declaration to that effect. This system required that
all lands should be brought into market, after proper notice,
so as to afford competition before being subject to private
entry.- It is true the lands in question were once offered at
public sale at $2.50 an acre, but the reason of the rule required that they should be again offered to the highest bidder, because their condition as to price had been changed,
and there had been no opportunity for competition at the
reduced price. Congress meant nothing more than to fix
$1.25 as their minimum price, and to place them in the
same category with other public lands not affected by landgrant legislation. When they were withdrawn from the
operation of this legislation, and their exceptional status
terminated, the general provisions of the land system attached to them, and they could not, therefore, be sold at
private entry, until all persons had the opportunity of bidding for them at public auction.
It follows that the plaintiff's entries were invalid and
rightly cancelled, because they were made before the lands
h, I been proclaimed for sale at the minimum price of $1.25

UNITED STATES V.

GAUSSEN.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

an acre, and that the defendant's entries were in accordance
with law, as they were located after the lands had been propJUDGMENT AFFIRMED.
erly brought into market.

UNITED STATES V. GAUSSEN.
1. Under the act of March 3d, 1797, enacting that in suits against delinquent
revenue officers, "a transcript from the books and proceedings of the
treasury shall be evidence," it is not necessary that every account with
any individual and all of every account, should be transcribed. An
extract may be given in evidence if not garbled or mutilated-that is to
say, an extract wherein credits are not suppressed, and which does not
confine itself to results, or balances without details, but which is complete in itself-perfect for what it purports to represent-and which gives
both sides of the account as it stands upon the books of the treasury.
2. The court, however, states that "it is not authorized to regulate the manner in which the departments shall keep their books, or to prescribe the
minuteness of detail," and that the statements and details of daily business made by a collector are necessarily condensed when carried to a
ledger account, and the results of many items stated in a briefer form than
that in which they stood on the original entries. And it confines itself
to saying that certain particular transcripts, all much alike, offered in
the ease, and one of which is given by the Reporter at large as an illustration of the whole, were sufficiently minute.
3. The said act of March 3d, 1797, proceeds upon the theory that the officers
of the Government shall make up the account of every revenue officer,
that it shall adjust the same on its books, and that the account thus
stated and adjusted shall stand as and for the sum for which such officer
shall be liable to it. The statement is prima facie evidence only.
A transcript of the accounts rendered by a collector himself (when not
partial or fragmentary), is evidence against the surety on his official
bond.

ERROR to the Circuit Court for the District of Louisiana:
the case being thus:
.Anact of March 3d, 1797,* enacts:
"SECTIoN 1. That when any revenue officer . ..shall neglect
or refuse to pay into the treasury the sum or balance reported
to be due to the United States upon the adjustment of his ac.
I Stat. at Large, 512.

