Oct. 1873.]

MORGAN'S

EXECUTOR v. GAY.

Statement of the case.

MORGAN'S EXECUTOR V. GAY.
1. Where a citizen of one State as indorsee of inland bills, drawn or accepted by a citizen of another-the plaintiff claiming through the indorsement of the payee, or of the payee and subsequent indorsers-sues
the drawer or acceptor, in the Circuit Court, the eleventh section of the
Judiciary Act requires that the citizenship of such payee, or of such payee
and subsequent indorsers, be alleged to be different from that of the defendant. It is not enough to allege that the plaintiff is a citizen of one
State and the defendant of another.
2. It is not competent for a Circuit Court to determine, without the intervention of a jury, an issue of fact in the absence of the counsel of the
party and without any written agreement to waive a trial by jury.

ERROR to the Circuit Court for the District of Louisiana;
the case being thus:
The eleventh section of the Judiciary Act, which gives
jurisdiction to the Circuit Courts of suits "between a citizen of the State where the suit is brought and a citizen of
another State," enacts, nevertheless, that no Circuit Court
shall "have cognizance of any suit to recover the contents
of any promissory note or other chose in action, in favor of
an assignee, unless a suit might have been prosecuted in such
court to recover the said contents if no assignment had been
made; except in cases of foreign bills of exchange."
This statute being in fbrce, Gay, as indorsee of three several inland bills of exchange, drawn or accepted by one Morgan, in his life, sued his executor upon them. Two of the
bills were indorsed by the payees, and the third by its payee
and by other indorsers.
The plaintiff in his petition described himself as a citizen
of Kentucky, and described the defendant as a citizen of
Louisiana, but said nothing about the citizenship of the
payees of the bills, nor, in the case of that one indorsed by
subsequent indorse7s, of the citizenship of these.
The defendant pleaded the statute of limitations, general
issue, &c.
The cause was called for trial, the plaintiff being repreVOL. XIX.

6

MORGAN'S EXECUTOR V.

GAY.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

sented by counsel; but the counsel for the defendant not
being present. The cause was submitted for hearing to the
court without a jury, and without any written stipulation such
as that which, when made in writing and filed with the clerk
of the court, the act of March 3d, 1865, allows to have the
effect of waiving a jury. The court overruled the plea, determined that the case was made out, and rendered a judgment for the plaintiff for the sum of the three bills, with
interest and costs.*
The defendant now brought the case here for review.
Messrs. J. A. and
no opposing counsel.

. G. Campbell, for the plaintiff in error;

Mr.Justice STRONG delivered the opinion of the court.
The plaintiff is an assignee of the bills within the meaning
of the eleventh section of the Judiciary Act of 1789, and by
the express provisions of the section is not entitled to maintain his action in the Circuit Court, unless a suit might have
been prosecuted in such court to recover the contents of the
bills if no assignment had been made. But the petition does
not show that the indorsers through whom the plaintiff
claims were not citizens of Louisiana at the time the suit
was brought. It is true, the citizenship of the defendant is
averred to have been in Louisiana, and that of the plaintiff
in Kentucky, but there is no averment of the citizenship of
the payees of the bills, or of the citizenship of the subsequent
indorsers. For aught that appears in the record, they may
also be citizens of Louisiana; and, therefore, incapable of
suing in the Circuit Court for that district to recover the
contents of the bills. As that court has only a limited jurisdiction, it must appear affirmatively that it may take cogni* The act referred to enacts:
"Issues of fact in civil cases, in any Circuit Court . . . may be tried and deter.
mined by the court without the intervention of a jury, whenever the parties or attorneys of record file a stipulation in writing with the clerk of the court waiving a
Jury. ")

Oct. 1873.]

TowN OF QUEENSBURY

V. CULVER.

83

Syllabus.

zance of the controversy between the parties.* In Turner
v. The Banlk of North Arneripa,t it was distinctly ruled that
when an action upon a promissory note is brought in a Federal court by an indorser against the maker, not only the
parties to the suit, but also the citizenship of the payee, and
the indorser, must be averred in the record to be such as to
give the court jurisdiction. The same rule was asserted in
Montalet v. Murray,. in Mollan v. Tbrrance,ยง and in Gibson et
al. v. Chew.! The judgment must, therefore, be reversed,
and the cause sent back that amendment may be made in
the pleadings showing the citizenship of the indorser of
the bills, if it be such as to give the court jurisdiction of
the case.
We may notice another error which will doubtless be
avoided should there be a second trial. Issues of fact appear to have been made up which were determined by the
court in the absence of the defendant's counsel, and without
any written agreement to waive a jury trial. This was irregular. In the absence of such an agreement, and of the defendant's counsel, it was not competent for the court to try
the issue without the intervention of a jury.
JUDGMENT REVERSED,

and the cause remanded for further

proceedings,
IN

ACCORDANCE WITH THIS OPINION.

TOWN OF QUEENSBURY V. CULVER.
1. There being nothing in the constitution of the State of New York which
makes unconstitutional an act of the legislature authorizing the people
of a town to decide whether they will donate its bonds to a railroad
company, and collect taxes for the amount, such an act (the same being
enabling merely and not mandatory) is binding.
Turner v. Enrille, 4 Dallas, 7.
: 4 Cranch, 46.
16 P-ers, 315.
Kearney v. Case, 12 Wallace, 275.

t lb. 8.
9 Wheaton, 537.

