Oct. 1873.]

SAVINGS BANK V. UNITED STATES.

227

Syllabus.

This act is confined to controversies between citizens of
different States, and the power given to the Circuit Court
is appellate. The jurisdiction involves the same principle,
and rests upon the same foundation with that conferred by
the twenty-fifth section of the Judiciary Act of 1789. The
constitutionality ol that provision has been uniformly sustained by the unanimous judgment of this court, whenever
the subject has been presented for adjudication. The twelfth
section of the act of 1789, and the third section of the act of
the 2d of March, 1833, relating to revenue officers, present
the same question. We are not aware that a doubt of the
validity of either has ever been expressed by any Federal
court. The acquiescence is now universal. The subject
was elaborately examined in Marlin v. Hunter.*
The seventh amendment to the Constitution, touching the
re-examination in the courts of the United States of facts
which have been tried by a jury, has no application to this
case, because the first judgmenit had been vacated, the first
verdict set aside, and a new trial granted, as before stated,
when the cause was removed to the Circuit Court.
The judgment of affirmance by the District Court and the
judgment affirmed are nEVERSED, and the District Court and
the Court of Common Pleas will be directed to
PROCEED NO FURTHER IN THE SUIT.

THE DOLLAR SAVINGS BANK V. UNITED STATES.
1. The ninth section of the Internal Revenue Act of 1866 subjects to the
tax of five per cent. laid on the undistributed sum or sums made and
added during the year to their surplus or contingent funds, by banks and
savings institutions generally, such sum or sums, when made and added
to such funds even by savings banks without stockholders or capital
stock, and which do the business of receiving deposits to be lent or invested for the sole benefit of their depositors.
* 1 Wheaton, 333; see also The Mayor v. Cooper, 6 Wallace, 247.

228

SAVINGs BANK V. UNITEn STATES.

[Sup. Vt.

Statement of the case.
2. A construction of a proviso to an act which makes the proviso plainly repugnant to the body of the act, is inadmissible.
3. The construction given to the Internal Revenue Act by commissioners
of internal revenue, even though published in an Internal Revenue
Record, is not a construction of so much dignity that a re-enactment of
the statute subsequent to the construction having been made and published, is to be regarded as a legislative adoption of that construction ;
especially not when the construction made a proviso to an act repugnant
to the body of the act.
4. By the Internal Revenue law the United States are not prohibied from
adopting the action of debt or any other common-law remedy for collecting what is due to them. This is true on general principles.
5. Under the Internal Revenue Act of July 13th, 1866, ,"taxes may be sued
for and recovered in the name of the United States in any proper form
of action."
6. The requirement by statute on all banks to pay a tax of a certain sum,
per cent., on all undistributed earnirgs made or added during the year
to their contingent funds, is a charge of a certain sum upon the banks,
and without assessment makes the banks a debtor for the sum precribed.
ERROR to the Circuit Court for the Western District of
Pennsylvania.
The United States brought an action of debt against The
Dollar Savings Bank, in the court below, to recover certain
internal revenue taxes, which the declaration alleged were
due from it to the government. These taxes were asserted
to have been authorized by an amendment contained in the
ninth section of the Internal Revenue Act of July 13th,
1866,* by which part of a prior Internal Revenue Act, the
act, namely, of June B0th, 1864, was repealed, and in place
thereof it was enacted:

"That there shall be levied and collected a tax offive per centum
on all dividends in scrip or money thereafter declared due, wherever and whenever the same shall be payable, to stockholders,

policy-holders, or depositors, or parties whatsoever, ... as part
of the earnings, income, or gains of any bank, trust company,
insurance company ... in
the United States or Territories,... and on all undistributed
sums, or sums made or added during the year to their surplus
or contingent funds; and said banks, trust companies, savings
savings institution, and of any...

* 14 Stat. at Large, 188.

Oct. 1873.]

SAVINGS BANK V. UNITED STATES.

229

Statement of the ease.

institutions, and insurance companies shall pay the said tax,
and are hereby authorized to deduct and withhold from all payments made on account of any dividends or sums of money that
may be due and payable as aforesaid, the said tax of five per
centum. And a list or return shall be made and rendered to the
assessor,. . . on or before the tenth day of the month following
that in which any dividends or sums of money become due or
payable as aforesaid; and said list or return shall contain a
true and faithful account of the amount of taxes as aforesaid;
and there shall be annexed thereto a declaration of the president, cashier, or treasurer of the bank, trust company, savings
institution, or insurance company, under oath or affirmation, in
form and manner as may be prescribed by the' commissioner of internal revenue, that the same contains a true and faithful account
of the taxes as aforesaid. And for any default in the making
or rendering of such list or return, with such declaration annexed, the bank, trust company, savings institution, or insurance company making such default shall forfeit as a penalty the
sum of $1000; and in case of any default in making or rendering said list or return, or of any default in the payment of the tax
as required, or any part thereof, the assessment and collection of
the tax and penalty shall be in accordancewith the general provisions
of law in other cases of neglect and refusal.
"_Provided, That the tax upon the dividends of life insurance
companies shall not be deemed due until such dividends are
payable; nor shall the portion of premiums returned by mutual
life insurance companies to their policy-holders, nor the annual
or semi-annual interest allowed or paid to the depositors in savings
banks or savings institutions, be considered as dividends."
The view of the government was that this act required a
tax of five per cent. to be levied and collected, amongst other
things, on sums added during the year by the Dollar Savings
Bank, the defendant in the case, to its surplus or contingent
fund, without regard to the character of the bank, or the nature and purpose -ofthat fund.
The section above quoted, as the reader has 'observed,
contains a requirement that each bank shall make a certain
return, "in form and manner as may be prescribed by the
commissiouer of internal revenue, that the same contains a

230

SAVINGS BANK V.

UNITED STATES.

[SUp. Ot

Statement of the case.

It aptrue and faithful account of the taxes aforesaid."
peared in this case that after the passage of the act in question, Mr. Rollins, the then commissioner of internal revenue, made, in February, 1867, a construction of it, so far as
it affected banks of the character of the one now sued, and
held that they were not required to pay a tax upon amounts
which were added to their retained funds instead of being
divided among their depositors, and that of course no return relating to any such subjects was required from such a
bank.*
This action of Commissioner Rollins was repeated by
his successor, Commissioner Delano, in 1870;t and it was
reaffirmed and repeated by Commissioner Pleasanton, in
1871.1
The Dollar Savings Bank, it seemed, bad accordingly
made no return during either of the years mentioned in the
declaration, not being required to do so by the commissioner of internal revenue.
In the year 1872, the successor of Commissioner Pleasanton adopted a different construction of the act, and this action
of debt was brought to recover the taxes which the declaration alleged should have been paid between June, 1866, and
December, 1870, inclusive; and these taxes, thus alleged to
be due, formed the subject-matter of this suit. The jury
found a special verdict:
"We find that the Dollar Savings Bank is a banking institution created by the laws of the State of Pennsylvania, without
stockholders or capital stock, and doing the business of receiving deposits to be loaned or invested for the sole benefit of its
depositors; that the charter authorizes the retention of a contingent fund, accumulated from the earnings, to the extent of
ten per centum of its deposits for the security of its depositors;
that it has earned and added to the said contingent fund, or
undistributedsum, from 13th July, 1866, to 31st December, 1870,
$107,000 (the tax of five per cent. on its earnings having been
paid prior to 13th July, 1866); that the earnings were carried
to and added to the said contingent or undistributedfund semi*5 Internal Revenue Record, 60.

t 11 Id. 73.

$ 13 Id. 73.

Oct. 1873.]

SAVINGS BANK V. UNITED STATES.

231

Argument against the tax.

annually, on the first days of July and January in each year.

And we find, if the court should be of opinion, on this state of
facts, that the plaintiff is entitled to recover, a verdict for the
United States for the sum of $5356, to which is to be added, if
the court should be of opinion that plaintiff is entitled to interest
on the semi-annual taxes, from the time they were due and payable, the further sum of $1100; but, if the court should be of
opinion, on the said facts so found, that the plaintiff is not
entitled to recover under the law, then we find for the defendant."
The court rendered a judgment in favor of the United
States for the principal sum of $5356, with costs of suit,
and this writ of error was taken.*
The errors assigned were:
1st. Holding that the act of Congress authorized the levy
and collection of the tax.
2d. Holding that an action of debt was maintainable for
the recovery of the tax.
No question was made in the court below as to whether
debt was the proper form of action, nor any question except
as to the liability of the savings bank to pay the tax.
Mr. B. B?. Curtis, for the plaintiff in error:
1. The act of Congress does not authorize the levy and collection
of the tax in question upon the defendant.
The decisions of the commissioners, Rollins and Pleasanton, were correct. They seem to have been founded upon
this view of the law, that Congress intended to tax the net
earnings of certain banking and other institutions named,
whether those net earnings should be distributed to the
stockholders in the form of dividends, or retained and added
to the capital; and that in those cases in which Congress
did not intend to tax the distributed earnings, they did not
intend to tax the undistributed earnings; and as it is ex* The court gave no interest, because it was admitted that the savings
bank was not reprehensibly in default, and that its refusal to pay the tax
was induced by the inconsistent action and the conflicting opinions of the
Internal Revenue Department.

SAVINGS BANK V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument against the tax.

pressly declared in the law, that sums paid to depositors in
savings batiks are not to be deemed dividends within the
imeaning of that word in the law, neither should the sums
which the bank has lawfully omitted to pay to its depositors,
and has held undistributed, not as all addition to the capital
stock (such banks having no capital stock), but only for the
security of its depositors in the future, be deemed taxable
as such surplus.
It is important to note in this connection, that, while this
power of the commissioners to prescribe what returns should
be made by savings banks was in full force, and while the
construction placed by the commissioners on the law was
known by public promulgation, Congress passed the act of
July 14th, 1870,* and in the fifteenth section used substantially the same language concerning the subject now in
question as was contained in the act of 1866. The case,
therefore, stands thus: Congress required the commissioner
to prescribe what returns savings banks should make. This
necessarily required him to put a construction on the law.
He did so, and held that they were not required to return
the sums held undistributed solely for the security of these
depositors. After this practical construction had been made
and acted on for nearly four years, Congress re-enacted the
tax (though it was reduced in amount) in the same words
which had received this practical construction.
It is a settled rule, that the re-enactment of a statute
which had received a judicial construction in effect adopts
that construction. And why not apply the same principle
to a contemporaneous practical construction put upon the
act by an officer expressly required to construe it?t
2. An action of debt was not mainlainable for the recovery of
the taxes in question.
This was an action at the common law. The UnitedStates has no common law;t but the thirty-fourth section
of the Judiciary..Act provides that the laws of the several/
* 16 Stat. at Large, 256.

t

Edwards's Lessee v. Darby, 12 W~ieaton, 206.
1 Wheaton v. Peters, 8 Peters, 658.

Oct. 1873.]

SAVINGS BANK V. UNITED STATES.

233

Argument against the tax.

States shall be the rules of decision in the trial of actions
at the common law.
Now, by the law of Pennsylvania, as also of many other
States, as it existed in 1789, an action of debt will not lie
to recover a tax authorized to be levied and collected by a
statute, which statute affords a remedy for its assessment
and collection.* The principle in all the decisions is, that
where a statute creates a right, and provides a particular
remedy by which that right may be vindicated, no other
remedy than that afforded by the statute call be used.
Especially will no such action lie under the statute in
question; because it expressly provides, that
"In case of any default in making or rendering said list or
return, or of any default in the payment of the tax as required,
or any part thereof, the assessment and collection of the tax
and penalty shall be in accordance with the general provisions
of law in other cases of neglect and refusal."
Those other provisions here referred to are found in the
act of July 13th, 1866.t They'require the assessor to make
lists; they point out what the lists are to contain; they authorize him at any time within fifteen vionths from the time
of the passage of the act, or from the time of the delivery
of the list to the collector, to make special additional lists;
and these general or special lists are to be delivered by him
to the collector, to stand as his warrant for the levy of the
tax upon the property of the delinquent taxpayer, pursuant
to the directions of the statute.
Further: Even if an action of debt could be sustained,
according to the common law of Pennsylvania, or any coinmon law, to recover taxes duly assessed, duly notified and demanded, it does not appear by the special verdict, nor is there
any reason from the known facts even to conjecture, that
* Mayer v. Kirby, 14 Sergeant & Rawle, 165; Turnpike Company v.
Brown, 2 Pennsylvania, 463; Turnpike Company v. Martin, 12 Pennsyl.
vania State, 37.
t 14 Stat. at Large, 103, 101; see the section quoted 18 Wallace, 643,
Dandeletv. Smith.

SAVINGS BANK V. IJNITED STATES.

[SUD. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

any one of these taxes ever was duly assessed. For aught
that appears, the commissioners of internal revenue prior
to December 1st, 1870, gave such instructions to the assessors that none of these taxes were assessed; and when, at
the end of that time, a new commissioner promulgated new
views as to the construction of the law, this action of debt
was brought. Now, if there had been any attempt regularly
to assess these taxes, by reason of an assumed mistake in
the construction of the law under which assessments had
been omitted, the assessor could not have gone back to the
term of fifteen months before he delivered his last list to
the collector. Yet, without any attempt to make such a
corrected assessment, so far as appears, or, indeed, ever to
assess regularly the taxes demanded in this suit, the court
below has rendered a judgment for their full amount.
Mr. C. H Bill, Assistant Attorney- General, contra.
Mr. Justice STRONG delivered the opinion of the court.
The ficts found by the special verdict are that the plaintiff in error is a banking institution created by the laws of
the State of Pennsylvania, without stockholders or capital
stock, and doing the business of receiving deposits to be
loaned or invested for the sole benefit of its depositors; that
the charter authorizes the retention of a contingent fund
accumulated from the earnings to the extent of ten per
centum of its deposits for the security of its depositors; that
the bank has earned and added to the said contingent fund,
or undistributed sum, from July 13th, 1866, to December
31st, 1870, one hundred and seven thousand dollars; and
that such earnings were carried to and added to said contingent or undistributed fund semi-annually, on the first days
of January and July in each year.
Upon this state of facts, the first question presented is
whether the act of Congress of July 13th, 1866, which was
an amendment to the Iuternal Revenue law,* authorizes the
* 14 Stat. at Large, 138.

Oct. 1878.] SAVINGS

BANK V. UNITED STATES.

235

Opinion of the court.

levy and collection of a tax upon the accumulated earnings
carried to the contingent fund. It is very plain that the
first intent of the act was to impose a tax upon all the earnligs, income, or gains, of the institutions mentioned therein.
The language of its one hundred and twentieth section is,
"There shall be levied and collected a tax of five per centum
on all dividends in scrip or money thereafter declared due,

whenever and wherever the same shall be payable to stockholders, policy-holders, or depositors, or parties whatsoever,
including non-residents, whether citizens or aliens, as part
of the earnings, income, or gains of any bank, trust company, savings institution, and of any fire, marine, life, inland insurance company, either stock or mutual, under
whatever name or style known or called in the United States
or Territories, whether specially incorporated or existing
under general laws; and on all undistributedsum or sums made
and added during the year to theh surplus or contingent funds."
This tax the banks, trust companies, savings institutions,
and insurance companies are required to pay, and they are
authorized to deduct it from all payments made on account
of any dividends or sums of money that may be due and
payable as aforesaid. It is, however, only so much of the
tax as is levied upon dividends or sums of money due and
payable to stockholders, policy-holders, or depositors, &C.,
which they are authorized to deduct. Thus it appears the
tax is laid upon two subjects,-the one dividends or sums
due and payable, and the other the undistributed surplus of
gains or earnings carried to a surplus or contingent fund.
These subjects, though together making up the entire net
earnings, are distinct from each other; and they are thus
treated throughout the section as well as throughout other
sections of the act. If the portion of the act which we
have quoted were all, it would not admit of a doubt that
both these subjects-the dividends, or annual or semi-annual
payments, and the sums added to the contingent fund-are
made taxable.
It is arg'ied, however, that savings institutions were relieved by the proviso to the section. That, of course, is to

236

SAVINGS BANK V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct

Opinion of the court.

be construed in connection with the section of which it is s
part, and it is substantially all exception. It takes out of
the operation of the body of the enactment that which otherwise would be within it. It restrains the generality of the
previous provisions. Its language is: "Provided that the
tax upon dividends of life insurance companies shall not be
deemed due until such dividends are payable; nor shall the
portion of premiums returned by mutual life insurance companies, nor the annual or semi-annual interest allowed or
paid to the depositor.3 in savings banks or savings institutions be considered as dividends." But so far as it relates
to savings banks, the only subject of the proviso is the annual or semi-annual interest allowed or paid to the depositors. It makes no reference to the undistributed surplus
which may be carried to a surplus fund. That it leaves as
it was in the body of the section, subject to the tax therein
imposed. And to us it appears quite plain that such was
the intention of Congress. Had it been the purpose to exempt savings banks from liability to pay the tax on both the
interest paid to its depositors and on all undistributed sums
carried to the surplus fund, the plain mode of expressing
such a purpose was to say in the proviso that such banks
should be excepted from the operation of the section. If
such was the purpose, why except them expressly from the
operation of a part of the section only ? -Whytake out one
subject of taxation specifically, and leave the other unmentioned ? And still more. It; as the plaintiff in error contends, it was intended that savings banks should pay no tax
on either of the two subjects mentioned in the body of the
section, why were such banks mentioned in the section at
all? The broad construction of the proviso contended for
makes it plainly repugnant to the body of the act, and it is,
therefore, inadmissible.
Our attention has been called to the fact that in 1867, and
again in 1870, the commissioners of internal revenue con.
strued the proviso as exempting savings institutions from
the tax upon all sums added to their surplus or contingent
funds, and that the act of Congress of July 14th, 1870, which

Oct. 1873.]

SAVINGS BANK V. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the court.

reduced internal taxation, employed substantially the same
language respecting savings banks as that contained in the
act of 1866. In view of this, the plaintiffs in error argue
that Congress required the commissioner to prescribe what
returns savings banks should make; that this made it his
duty to put a construction on the law; that he did so, and
held that such institutions were not required to return undistributed earnings carried to a surplus fund, and that after
this practical construction had been made and acted upon
more than three years, Congress re-enacted the tax, reduced
in amount, in the same words. Hence, it is inferred, the
construction given by the commissioner was adopted. It is,
doubtless, a rule that when a judicial construction has been
given to a statute, the re-enactment of the statute is generally
held to be in effect a legislative adoption of that construction.
This, however, can only be when the statute is capable of
the construction given to it, and when that construction hag
become a settled rule of conduct. The rule, we think, is in
applicable to this case. In the first place, the decisions of
the internal revenue commissioner can hardly be denomi
nated judicial constructions. That officer was not required
by the law to prescribe what returns savings banks were required to make. That was prescribed by the act of Congresa
itself, and he had no power to dispense with the requisition.
There is, therefore, no presumption that his decisions were
brought to the knowledge of Congress when the act of 1870
was passed. And again, the construction he gave is an
impossible one, for, as we have seen, it makes the proviso
plainly repugnant to the body of the section.
We are constrained, then, to hold that the act of Congress
does impose upon the plaintifls in error the tax to recover
which the present suit was brought.
The second error assigned is that the Circuit Court erred
in holding that an action of debt is maintainable in that
court for the recovery of the taxes.
We do not perceive that the question presented by this
assignment was raised or even mentioned in the court below,

238

SAVINGS BANK V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

and it is not clear that it may first be raised here. But if it
may, the answer must be that the taxds may be recovered
in an action of debt brought in the Circuit Court.
The argument in support of the assignment of error is
that the United States has no common law; that the thirtyfourth section of the Judiciary Act enacts that the laws of
the several States shall be the rules of decision in the trial
of actions at common law, of which debt is one; that the act
of Congress which imposes the tax on savings banks provides a special remedy for its assessment and collection, and
that it is a principle of the common law of Pennsylvania,
that when a statute creates a right and provides a particular
remedy by which that right may be enforced, no other
remedy than that afforded by the statute can be used.
It must be conceded that in the section of the act,* which
required savings banks to pay the tax, they are also required
to render to the assessor or assistant assessor a list of the
amount of taxes with a declaration under oath attached
thereto, on or before the 10th day of the month following
that in which any dividends or sums of money may be due
and payable, and for ally de[airlt in rendering such a list
tlh - ar.. liable to a penalty. The act also declares that "in
case of any default in making or rendering said list or return, or any defiult in the payment of the tax as required,
or any part thereof, the assessment and collection of the tax
and penalty shall be in accordance with the general provisions of law in other cases of neglect and refusal." 'What
those general provisions are may be seen in other sections
of the act which prescribe assessments, delivery thereof to
the collectors, and distraint if necessary.
It must also be conceded to be a rule of the common law
in England, as it is in Pennsylvania and many of the other
States, that where a statute creates a right and provides a
particular remedy for its enforcement, the remedy is gener
ally exclusive of all common-law remedies.
But it is important to notice upon what the rule is
* Act of 1866,

120.

Oct. 1873.]

SAVINGS BANK V. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the court.

founded. The reason of the rule is that the statute, by providing a particular remedy, manifests an intention to prohibit other remedies, and the rule, therefore, rests upon a
presumed statutory prohibition. It applies and it is enforced when any one to whom the statute is a rule of conduct seeks redress for a civil wrong. He is confined to the
remedy pointed out in the statute, for he is forbidden to
make use of any other. But by the Internal Revenue law,
the United States are not prohibited from adopting any remedies for the recovery of a debt due to them which are
known to the laws of Pennsylvania. The prohibitions, if
any, either express or implied, contained in the enactment
of 1866, are for others, not for the government. They may
be obligatory upon tax collectors. They may prevent any
suit at law by such officers or agents. But they are not
It is a finiliar principle
rules for the conduct of the Stat
that the ring isnt bound by any act of Parliament unless
he be named therein by special and particular words. The
most general words that can be devised (for example, any
person or persons, bodies politic or corporate) affect not him
in the least, if they may tend to restrain or diminish any of
his rights and interests.* He may even take the benefit of
any particular act, though not named.t The rule thus settled respecting the British Crown is equally applicable to
this government, and it has been applied frequently in the
different States, and practically in the Federal courts. It
may be considered as settled that so much of the royal prerogatives as belonged to the King in his capacity of parens
patr, or universal trustee, enters as much into our political
state as it does into the principles of the British constitution.{...
It must, then, be concluded that the government is not prohibited by anything contained in the act of 1866 from em* Magdalen College Case, 11 Reports, 74; King v. Allen, 15 East, 333.

t 7 Reports, 32; Potter's Dwarris on Statutes, 151, 152.
: Commonwealth v. Baldwin, 1 Watts, 54; People v. Rossiter, 4 Cowen,
143; United States v. Davis, 3 McLean, 483; Same v. Williams, 5 Id. 133;
Commonwealth v. Johnson. 6 Pennsylvania State, 1.36; United States v
Greene, 4 Mason 427; Same v. Hoar, 2 Id. 311 ; Same v. Hewes, Crabbe, 307

SAVINGS BANK V. UNITED STATES.

[SUp. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

ploying any common-law remedy for the collection of its dues.
The reason of the rule which denies to others the use of any
other than the statutory remedy is wanting, therefore, in
applicability to the government, and the rule itself must not
be extended beyond its reason. And we do not find that
either in England or in Pennsylvania it has been held to be
applicable. On the contrary, in England informations of
debt, and exchequer informations for discovery and account,
to recover duties on importations, have been of frequent
occurrence, though the acts of Parliament have provided a
different remedy for enforcing the payment. Numerous
such cases are reported in Bunbury's Reports.* And in
United States v. Lyran,t Judge Story held that debt might
be maintained in the Circuit Court for Massachusetts to recover duties upon imported goods; a doctrine reasserted by
this court in Meredith v. United States.1
,--~'~But All this is superfluous, for the act of Congress authorizes suits at law to recover unpaid taxes.ยง It enacts as follows: "An1d taxes may be sued for and recovered, in the
name of the United States, in any proper form of action, be.
fore any Circuit or District Court of the United States for
the district in which the liability for such tax may have
been or may be incurred, or where the party from whom
such tax is due may reside at the time of the commencement of said action."
Nor is there anything in the objection that the taxes for
which judgment has been recovered in this case had not
been assessed. No other assessment than that made by the
statute was necessary to determine the extent of the bank's
liability. An assessment is only determining the value of
the thing taxed, and the amount of the tax required of each
individual. It may be made by designated officers or by
the law itself. In the present case the statute required every
savings bank to pay a tax of five per cent. on all undistributed earnings made, or added during the year to their
* See pp. 155, 299, 300, 339; see also Comyn's Digest, title "Debt," A.
9; 1 lolle, 383.
14 Stat. at Large, 111.
13 Peters, 486.
t 1 Mason, 482.

Oct. 1873.]

NUGENT V. THz SuPmVtiSORS.
Syllabus.

contingent funds. There was no occasion or room for any
other assessment. This was a charge of a certain sum upon
the bank,* and without more it made the bank a debtor.
We think, therefore, the second assignment of error canJUDGMENT AFFIRMED.
not be sustained.
Mr. Justice BRADLEY, with whom concurred Mr. Justice FIELD, dissenting:
I dissent from the judgment of the court, on the ground
that an action will not lie for a tax of the kind in question
in this case, unless it be first entered on the assessment-roll.
The assessment-roll should be regarded as conclusive as to
the persons or things liable to taxation. If it is not, if the
matter is left open so that any person or corporation may
be prosecuted for taxes at any time, it leaves the citizen exposed to many hazards, and to the mercy of prying informers, when the evidence by which he could have shown his
immunity or exemption has perished.

If an action of debt,

without an assessment can be brought, what is the limit of
time within which it must be brought? To what statute of
limitations is the government subject? It seems to me that
the decision introduces a new principle in the system of taxation, dangerous to the rights of the citizen and the peace
and security of society.

INUGENT V.

Ti

SUPERVISORS.

1. To constitute a "subscription" by a county to stock in a railroad company, it is not necessary that there be an act of chirographical subscribing. A resolution of the county declaring a subscription made, tn
acceptance of such subscription by the railroad company, and notice to
the county of such acceptance; the delivery to the railroad company
by the proper county officers of the county bonds, and acceptance by the
county of the corresponding stock, voting as a stockholder and levying a
tax to pay the interest on the bonds, estop the county (assuming that it
had a legal right to subscribe) from denying its subscription.
* Attorney-General v. -,
YOL. xrx.

2 Anstruther, 558.
16

