COIT V. ROBINSON.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

COIT V. ROBINSON.
-When, after opposition by a creditor to the discharge of a petitioner in bankruptcy, the District Court discharges him, and the opposing creditor
files in the Circuit Court a "petition of appeal,"-a petition setting
forth the application for the benefit of the Bankrupt Act, the opposition,
and the discharge, and praying the Circuit Court for a reversal of the
orders of discharge of the District Court-such "petition of appeal"
must be regarded as being a petition for review under the first clause of
the second section of the Bankrupt Act, which gives the Circuit Courts
a general superintendence and jurisdiction of all cases and questions
arising under the act; and on an affirmance by the Circuit Court of
the decree of discharge by the District Court, no appeal lies to this court,
though the debt of the opposing creditor discharged be more than
$2000.

ON motion to dismiss an appeal from the Circuit Court
for the Southern District of New York, affirming a decree
of the District Court in bankruptcy, forever discharging, in
the usual way, two persons, partners in trade, from payment
of all debts and claims against them, &c., including a debt
of one Coit, to a greater amount than $2000.
The case was thus:
Robinson & Chamberlain, partners in trade, applied to the
District Court for the Southern District of New York for a
discharge under the Bankrupt Act of March 2d, 1867.*
Coit opposed their discharge, notwithstanding which the
court held them entitled to be discharged, and by its decree
discharged them accordingly. Thereupon Coit petitioned
the Circuit Court for a reversal of the decree of the District
Court, and on the same day filed a bond with surety for
costs, and pursuant to the notice given, filed in the Circuit
Court a paper entitled "petition of appeal," in which he referred to the petition in bankruptcy of Robinson & Chamberlain, and stated that he was a creditor; that he had
proved a part of his claim and filed his proof; that the
bankrupts were examined at his instance, that he made op* 14 Stat. at Large, 518.

Oct 1873.]

COIT V. RoBlNsoN.
Statement of the ca-se.

position to their discharge, and that he filed the grounds of
his opposition with the District Court; that he was heard in
support of his opposition before that court, and that the
court overruled his opposition and granted a discharge with
costs against him, the opposing creditor. The petition concluded thus:
"Your petitioner, feeling aggrieved thereby, prays the Circuit Court for a reversal of the said several orders of the said
District Court as being contrary to law and to the evidence."
All the proceedings, including the evidence, had in the
District Court were filed with this petition.
The petition of appeal was heard in the Circuit Court,
and a decree made, which, after reciting, that "at a stated
term of the said court," "the petition of W. A. Coit, one of
the creditors, &c., praying for a review and reversal of the
decree of the District Court, &c., granting a discharge to the
bankrupts, and the appeal thereon had been brought to a
hearing before the said Circuit Court," concluded:
"Now, on all the papers and proceedings herein; and after
hearing, Mr. Charles Tracy, of counsel for said creditor and appellant Coit, on behalf of said petition, and Mr. G. A. Seixas
of counsel for said bankrupts and respondents, in opposition
thereto. It is ordered, adjudged, and decreed that the said decree of said District Court be and the same is hereby affirmed."
Coit thereupon filed in the Circuit Court a petition, addressed to this court, giving a statement of the proceediugs
already referred to, both in the District Court and in the
Circuit Court, and concluding as follows:
"Your petitioner, therefore, prays that all and singular the
records and proceedings of said ircuit Court upon the said
case and the appeal thereon may be removed to the Supreme
Court, and that the said decree of the Circuit Court may be
reversed, and that your petitioner may have such other and
further relief as may be deemed fit and proper."
Before filing this petition he filed in the same office where
he had filed it a bond in $1000, conditioned to prosecute the

COT V. ROBINSON.

[Sul. Ot.

Statement of the case.

appeal with effect, and approved by the circuit judge "as to
form and sufficiency of sureties."
The appeal being entered in this court the bankrupts
moved to dismiss it, on the ground that no appeal would lie
in such a case from the Circuit Court. And whether one
would or would not, was the question before this court.
The question depended largely upon certain enactments
of Congress, including specially clauses of the Judiciary
Act of 1789, and of the Bankrupt Act of March 2d, 1867,
under which the discharge took place. The sections referred to or relied on in the opinion of the court run thus:
Judiciary Act.*
"SECTION 11. The Circuit Courts shall have appellate jurisdiction from the District Courts under the regulations and restrictions hereinafter provided.
"SEcTION 22. Final decrees and judgments in civil actions in
a District Court where the matter in dispute exceeds the sum
or value of $50, exclusive of costs, may be re-examined and reversed or affirmed in a Circuit Court upon a writ of error.
"And upon a like process may final judgments and decrees in
civil actiors and suits in equity in a Circuit Court ... removed
there by appeal from a District Court, where the matter in dispute exceeds the sum or value of $2000, exclusive of costs, be
re-examined and reversed or affirmed in the Supreme Court."
[By act of March, 1803,t an appeal is given to the Supreme Court from all final judgments or decrees rendered
in any Circuit Court in any cases of equity, of admiralty, and
maritimejuridiction,or prize or no prize, under the same conditions as to the sun or value or the matter in dispute as
befbre existed in regard to writs of error.]
Bankrupt Act.
This act, after constituting the several District Courts of
the United States, "courts of bankruptcy," and after giving
to them "original jurisdiction in their respective districts in
all matters and proceedings in bankruptcy," enacts by its
1 Stat. at Large, 79.

t Ib.

Oct. 1873.]

COIT V. R'OBINSON.
Statement of the ease.

second section (the same, for the convenience of the reader
of the court's opinion, being here broken into clauses), as
follows:
"SECTION 2. The several courts of the United States, within
and for the districts where the proceedings in bankruptcy shall
be pending, shall have a general superintendence and jurisdiction of all cases and questions arising under this act; and except
when special provision is otherwise made may, upon bill, petition, or other proper process of any party aggrieved, hear and
determine the case as a court of equity.
"The powers and jurisdiction hereby granted may be exercised either by said court or by any justice thereof, in term time

or in vacation.

"Said Circuit Courts shall also have concurrent jurisdiction
with the District Courts of the same district of all suits at law
or equity, which may or shall be brought by the assignee in
bankruptcy against any person claiming an adverse interest, or
by such person against such assignee touching any property or
rights of property of said bankrupt, transferable to or vested
in such assignee, &c.

"SEcTION 8. Appeals may be taken from the District Courts
to the Circuit Courts in all cases in equity, and writs of error
may be allowed to said Circuit Courts from said District Courts,
in cases at law, under the jurisdiction created by this act, when
the debt or damages cJaimed amount to more than $500.
"And any supposed creditor whose claim is wholly or in part
rejected, or an assignee who is dissatisfied with the allowance
of a claim, may appeal from the decision of the District Court
to the Circuit Court for the same district, &c., &e.
"SECTION 9. in cases arising under this act no appeal or writ
of error shall be allowed, in any case, from the Circuit Courts
to the Supreme Court of the United States, ualess the matter in
dispute in such case shall exceed 82000."
The twenty-ninth section authorizes a discharge by the
District Court of the petitioning debtor when there has been
no fraud on the act. The act goes on:
"SEcTION 31. Any creditor opposing the discharge of any
bankrupt, may file a specification in writing of the grounds of
hir gppositi)n, and the court may, in its discretion, order any

COIT

v. ROBINSON.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

question of fact so presented to be tried at a stated session of
the District Court."
Mr. G. A. Seixas, for the bankrupts, and in support of the
motion to dismiss, contended that the only mode of review at
the circuit was by petition, under the first clause of the
second section of the act,* which Coit, the opposing creditor,
had in fact followed, and that in such case no appeal lies to
this court; and that this was settled by Morgan v. Thornhill,t
Hall v. Allen,t Smith v. Mason,ยง Mead v. Thompson.[I

Mr. Charles T-acey, contra, argued that none of the cases
cited governed this; that they were all upon interlocutory
orders; and so no precedent in a case like this, where the
debtor'was discharged and the debt of the opposing creditor
annihilated; a case where he certainly ought to have the
privilege of being heard in a superior court.
Mr. Justice CLI]FFOI{D delivered the opinion of the court.
District Courts have original jurisdiction, in their respective districts, of all matters and proceedings in bankruptcy,
and are authorized to hear and adjudicate the same according to the provisions of the Bankrupt Act.ff Circuit Courts
have a general superintendence and jurisdiction of all cases
and questions arising under that act, within and for the districts where the proceedings under the act are pending; and,
except when special provision is otherwise made, may, upon
bill, petition, or other proper process, of any party aggrieved,
hear and determine the case as in a court of equity; the
provision also being that the Circuit Court, or any justice
thereof, may exercise the powers and jurisdiction granted
by that clause, "in term time or vacation."**
* Ruddick v. Billings, 3 Bankrupt Register, 14; 1 Woolworth, 330; In
re O'Brien, Bankrupt Register, Sup. 38; In re Hall, 1 Dillon, 586; 1 Abbott,
N. S. 503.
- 11 Wallace, 65.
: 12 Id. 452.
14 Id. 419.
15 Id. 638.
14 Stat. at Large, 517.
Ilb. 518.

Oct. 1873.]

COIT V. ROBINSON.
Restatement of the case in the opinion.

On the 29th of February, 1868, the respondents filed their
petition in the District Court for the Southern District of
New York, representing that they owed debts within the
judicial district exceeding $300, and that they were unable
to pay all their debts in full; that they were willing to surrender all their estate and effects for the benefit of their
creditors, and stating that they desired to obtain the benefit
of the Bankrupt Act; and prayed that, after due proceedings had, they might, by a decree of the court, be adjudged
to be bankrupts, and that, upon complying with all the requirements of that act, they may severally be decreed to
have a certificate of discharge from all their debts provable
under the said act. By the record it also appears that the
petitioners, on the 12th of June in the same year, were adjudged to be bankrupts within the true intent and meaning
of the Bankrupt Act.
Complete jurisdiction of the case was by those means acquired by the District Court, and it further appears that such
proceedings were had that the respondents, on the 17th of
July following, were, by the decree of the District Court,
discharged from all debts and claims provable under that
act against them on the day their petition to be adjudged
bankrupts was filed.
Opposition to their discharge was made by the present
appellant, and the District Court, on the 24th of the same
month, heard the parties and passed an order that the bankrupts recover of him, as such opposing creditor, the costs
incurred by them in resisting such opposition, amounting to
the sum of $129.50. Three days later the appellant, as such
opposing creditor, gave notice that he intended to petition
the Circuit Court for the same district for a reversal of the
aforesaid decree of the district judge, and on the same day
he filed a bond for costs, executed by himself and a surety,
and pursuant to the notice given, on the 6th of August following lie filed in the Circuit Court a certain paper called
the "peition of appeal," in which he refers to the petition in
bankruptcy of the respondents and states that he is a creditor of their estate; that he proved a part of his claim i,

CuiT v. ROBINSON.

[Sup. Ct,

Opinion of the court.

that proceeding, and that he filed proof of the same with
the register; that the bankrupts were examined at his instance, and that he made opposition to their discharge, and
that lie filed the grounds of his opposition in that behalf
with the District Court; that he was heard in support of
his opposition before the district judge, and that the district judge overruled his opposition and granted the respective certificates of discharge to the alleged bankrupts, and
awarded such costs to them as they incurred in resisting
his opposition, and concludes as follows: "Your petitioner,
feeling aggrieved thereby, prays the Circuit Court for a reversal of the said several orders of the said District Court
as being contrary to law and to the evidence," as more fully
set forth in the petition, to which he made oath before the
register and caused notice thereof to be served on the solicitor of the bankrupts.
Duly certified copies of the proceedings in bankruptcy, as
well those that took place before the register as those before
the district judge, whether in term time or vacation, were,
on the 17th of September in the following year, filed in the
office of the clerk of the Circuit Court for the same district,
together with a copy of the minutes of the testimony taken
before the register, filling more than three hundred and
sixty closely printed pages of the transcript, without including the numerous exhibits which are annexed to the certificate of the clerk. Hearing was had in the Circuit Court on
the petition for review, and the Circuit Court, on the 28th
of March last, adjudged and decreed that the decree of the
District Court be in all things affirmed, and that the bankrupts recover such costs of the petitioner as they incurred in
resisting his opposition, amounting to the sum of $94.25.
Beyond all question the case in the Circuit Court was a
petition for review under the first clause of the second section of the Bankrupt Act, which gives to the Circuit Courts
within and for the districts where the proceedings in bankruptey are pending, a general superintendence and jurisdiction of all cases and questions arising under the Bankrupt

Oct. 1873.]

COIT

v.

IBINS0ON.

Opinion of the court.

Act, except where special provision is otherwise made. Such
courts, in the exercise of their supervisory jurisdiction, may
hear and determine any such case or question upon bill, petition, or other proper process of any party aggrieved, as in
kind may be
a court of equity. Cases and questions of the
heard and determined by the proper Circuit Court, or by
any justice thereof, in term time or vacation, which of itself
is quite sufficient to show that the power and jurisdiction
conferred by that clause of the second section are not the
same as that conferred upon the Circuit Courts by the
eleventh section of the Judiciary Act.*
Special provision is not otherwise made in the Bankrupt
Act for the review or revision by the Circuit Court of either
of the questions involved in the orders or decrees of the District Court which are the subject of complaint in the case,
and for that reason it follows that the power and jurisdiction
of the Circuit Court to hear and determine the complaint of
the appellant and to review or revise the orders or decrees
of the District Court in the case were decided under the
first clause of the second section of the Bankrupt Act.
Said Circuit Courts also have jurisdiction, concurrent with
the District Courts, of all suits at law or in equity, which
may or shall be brought by the assignee in bankruptcy
against any person claiming any adverse interest, or by such
person against such assignee, touching any property or rights
of property of said bankrupt, transferable to or vested in
such assignee.
Concurrent jurisdiction with the District Courts of all
suits at law or in equity are the words of that clause, showing conclusively that the jurisdiction intended to be conferred is the regular jurisdiction between party and party,
as described in the eleventh section of the Judiciary Act and
the third article of the Constitution. Consequently it follows that final judgments in such civil actions, or final decrees in such suits in equity, rendered in cases where the
matter in dispute exceeds, exclusive of costs, the sum or
* 1 Stat. at Large, 78.

COIT V. ROBINSON.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

value of $2000, may be re-examined in this court under the
twenty-second section of the Judiciary Act, when properly
removed here by writ of error or appeal, as required by existing laws.*
Like jurisdiction in all such suits at law or in equity is
also vested in the District Courts concurrent with the Circuit
Courts, but inasmuch as such controversies are made the
subject of special provision, neither the judgment nor the
decree of the District Court in such a suit call be reviewed
or revised by the Circuit Court under the first clause of the
second section of the Bankrupt Act, nor in any other manner than that provided in the twenty-second section of the
Judiciary Act and the subsequent act regulating appeals.t
Opportunity for further litigation, either in the District or
Circuit Court, being closed, the appellant, on the 11th of
April last, filed in the Circuit Court a petition, addressed to
the justices of this court, giving a full summary statement
of the aforesaid proceedings, both in the District Court and
in the Circuit Court, and concluding as follows: Your petitioner therefore prays that all and singular the records and
proceedings of said Circuit Court upon the said case and the
appeal thereon may be removed to the Supreme Court, and
that the said decree of the Circuit Court may be reversed,
and that your petitioner may have such other and further
relief as may be deemed fit and proper.
Before lodging that petition in the clerk's office of the
Circuit Court the appellant filed in the same office a bond
in the sum of one thousand dollars, conditioned to prosecute
the appeal with effect, dated one day earlier, and approved
by the circuit judge "as to form and sufficiency of sureties."
Since the case was entered in this court the respondents
have appeared and filed a motion to dismiss the appeal for
the want of jurisdiction, which is the principal question for
the consideration of the court at the present time.
Cases arising under'the third clause of the second section
v. Thornhill, 11 Wallace, 80.
t 1 Stat. at Large, 84; 2 Id. 244.

*Morgan

Oct. 1873.]

COIT

v.

ROBINSON.

Opinion of the codrt.

of the Bankrupt Act, where the amount is sufficient, are
plainly within the ninth section of the Bankrupt Act, and as
such, when tfie case has proceeded to final judgment or decree, may be removed here for re-examination by writ of
error or appeal, as the ease may be, but the review and revision contemplated by the first clause of the same section is
evidently the same in substance and eiffct as that given to
the Circuit Courts in the prior Bankrupt Act, as sufficiently
appears from the words, "general superintendence," preceding and qualifyiiig the word "jurisdiction ;" and more
clearly from the fact that the revisory jurisdiction extends to
mere questions, as contradistinguished from judgments or
decrees, as well as to cases; and from the further fact that
the jurisdiction in that behalf may be exercised in chambers
as well as in court, and in vacation as well as in term tinie.*
Suits in equity and cases at law, under the jurisdiction
created by that act, may be removed to the Circuit Court
for re-examination, as provided by the eighth section of the
act, but it is quite clear that the removal in such cases must
be eflcted under the regulations prescribed in the twentysecond section of the Judiciary Act and the subsequent act
allowing appeals in cases of equity and of admiralty and
maritime jurisdiction.t
Mere questions are not re-examinable under the regulations prescribed in those acts, nor would any judgment or
decree be regarded as a regul.r final judgment or decree for
such a purpose, unless it was rendered in term time when
the court was in session.
By that section "all cases in equity" and "cases at law,"
when the debt or damages claimed amount to more than
$500, may be removed into the Circuit Court for re-examination, and the further provision is that any supposed creditor
whose claim is wholly or in part rejected, or any assignee
who is dissatisfied with the allowance of a claim, may appeal
from the decision of the District Court to the Circuit Court
for the same district, if claimed and due notice thereof is
*

organ v. Thornhill, 11 Wallac, go.

-t 2 Star. at Large, 244.

COIT V.

ROBINSON.

[Sup. Or.

OPinion of the court.

given, as therein required, within ten days after the entry
of the decree or decision in the District Court. Nor can
any writ of error be allowed under that section unless the
party claiming it shall comply with the statutes regulating
the granting of such writs, and the better opinion is that the
writ of error must be sued out within the same time as that
allowed for claiming an appeal in an equity snit.*
Appellate jurisdiction may unquestionably be exercised
by the Circuit Courts in four classes of cases under the
Bankrupt Act: (1.) By appeal from the final decree ol the
District Courts, in suits in equity commenced and prosecuted
in the latter courts by virtue of the jurisdiction created by
the third clause of the second section of the act. (2.) By
writs of error sued out to the District Courts in civil actions
finally decided by such courts in the exercise of jurisdiction
created by the same clause of that section. Where the
amount in dispute in such cases exceeds, exclusive of costs,
the sum or value of $2000, the final judgment or decree in
the case, as rendered in the Circuit Court, may be removed
into this court for re-examination, as provided in cases originally brought in the Circuit Court. (3.) By appeal from
the decision of the District Court rejecting wholly or in part
the claim of a creditor, as provided in the eighth section of
the act. (4.) By appeal from the decision of the District
Court allowing such a claim when the same is opposed by
the assignee.
Doubts are entertained whether the cases mentioned in
the last two propositions are re-examinable in this court,
but the question is not presented for decision in this case.
Whether the bankrupt is entitled to a discharge pursuant
to the twenty-ninth section of the Bankrupt Act is always a
question to be decided by the District Court under the conditions prescribed in that section. Creditors opposing the
discharge may file a specification in writing of the grounds
of their opposition, but the only effect of such a specification, as declared in the thirty-first section of the act, is to
* Insurance Co. v. Comstock et al., 16 Wal~ace, 258.

Oct. 1873.]

CoIT v. RowINsoN.

285

Opinion of the court.

authorize the court, "in its diserdion," to postpone the question of fact to be tried at a stated session of the court, as the
thirty-second section provides that if it shall appear to the
court that the bankrupt has, in all things, conformed to his
duty under the act, the court shall grant the prescribed discharge.*
Regulations of a different character are prescribed in a
case where the question is whether the alleged insolvent
shall be adjudged a bankrupt without his consent, as in that
event the provision is that the court shall, if the debtor, on
the return day of the notice, required to be given on the
petition, so demand in writing, order a trial by jury as
therein provided, but the Bankrupt Act contains no provision for a jury trial on the question of discharge, and in
the judgment of the court the only power vested in the Circuit Court to review and revise the decision of the District
Court, made in granting or refusing such a discharge, is
that conferred by the first clause of the second section of

that act.
Except when special provision is otherwise made the Circuit Courts under that clause have a general superintendence and jurisdiction of all cases and questions arising under
the Bankrupt Act. Special provision is not otherwise made
for the re-examination by the Circuit Court of the decision
of the District Court in granting or refusing a discharge in
bankruptcy, and, of course, it can only be done under the
power conferred by that clause.
:Nothing remains for consideration in this case except to
inquire whether an appeal lies to this court from a decree
of the Circuit Court rendered in the exercise of the supervisory jurisdiction conferred upon that court by the first
clause of the second section of the Bankrupt Act, which is
the very question that was presented to this court in the
case of Morgan v. Thornhiil,t where this court unanimously
decided the question in the negative. Since that opinion
was delivered this court has decided the same question in
*14

Stat. at Large, 633.

-t 11 Wallace, 65.

COIT v. ROBINSON.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of Bradley and Miller, JJ., dissenting.

the same way in four other cases, all of which are published
"n the regular series of the reports of the Supreme Court.*
None of these statements can be successfully contradicted,
and it follows that this court has no jurisdiction of the appeal
in this case.
MoTIoN GRANTED, and the case
DIsMISSED FOR WANT OF JURISDICTION.

-Mr. Justice BRADLEY, with whom concurred Mr. Justice MILLER, dissenting:
I dissent from the judgment of the court in this case.
The Judiciary Act gives a writ of error to this court from
all final judgments and decrees in civil actions and suits in
equity in the Circuit Courts, where the matter in dispute
exceeds the sum or value of two thousand dollars. The act
of March 3d, 1803, converts this writ of error into an appeal
in cases of equity, and admiralty and maritime jurisdiction
and prize cases. The cases in which appeals in bankruptcy
have heretofore been disallowed, were cases of interlocutory
orders or decrees; and, therefore, not within the terms of
the law. The decree appealed from in this case has all the
elements of a final decree, and belongs to a system of proceeding which has always been regarded in England as of
equitable cognizance. The fact that it depends upon statutory regulation does not divest it of that character. A
bankruptcy proceeding, by which the estate of a debtor is
administered, is essentially an equitable one. In a case of
such importance as that which involves a man's liability or
non-liability for his debts after he has given up all his property, he ought not to be deprived of the right of appeal if
the law, fairly considered, gives it to him. I think it does
give it to him in this case.
* Hal, v. Allen, 12 Wallace, 452; Smith v. Mason, 14 Id. 430; Mead v
Thompson, 15 Id. 638; Marshall v. Knox, 16 Id. 555.

