BUTT V. ELLETT.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

circumstances of the case, any sound criterion by which the
judgment of the jury should be formed, and the instruction
in this branch of the case was unwarranted and misleading.
The jury should have been left to decide for themselves,
under all the facts before them attending the death of the
insured, whether it was caused by his wilful exposure to an
unnecessary danger or peril. Such light as the court as a
matter of law could give them, on the subject of the wilfulness of his conduct, or the presence or absence of any necessity or the character of the necessity which would justify
him, might be proper, but this general reference to what
ordinary people in a particular locality might think about it,
was clearly not so.

For the errors here considered, the JUDGMENT IS REVERSED,
with direction to
GRANT A NEW TRIAL.

BUTT V. ELLETT.
1. Although an instrument which purports to mortgage a crop the seed of
which has not yet been sown, cannot at the time operate as a mortgage
of the crop, yet when the seed of the crop intended to be mortgaged has
been sown and the crop grows, a lien attaches.
2. When property which the owner has leased is sold at sheriff's sale, on
execution against the owner, the sheriff's deed conveys the reversion
and the rent follows as an incident.
8. Accordingly, where a lease of a cotton plantation, made in January, 1867,
in order to secure the rent, mortgaged the crop of that year, Held, that
although the seed of that crop had not yet been sown, a purchaser of the
land at sheriff's sale could charge as trustee of it for him, a person to
whom the tenant had transferred the crop, after it had grown and was
gathered, such purchaser having taken with notice of the landlord's
mortgage.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court for the District of Louisiana; the case was thus:
Sillers, the owner of a plantation in Mississippi, leased

Oct. 1873.]

BUTT V. ELLETT.
Statement of the case.

the same, on the 15th of January, 1867, to Graham, for one
year, from January 1st, of that year, Graham giving his own
note, payable to Sillers, for $8500, for the rent. And to
secure payment of the note embodying in the lease by which
the plantation was let to him a mortgage of all the crops
raised on the plantation in the year 1867. The mortgage
was immediately recorded in due form. The note was never
paid.
On the 3d of June, 1867, one Ellett, having recovered a
judgment against Sillers, sold the plantation at a sheriff's
sale under the judgment, and bought it; and Sillers transferred to him the note of Graham for $3500, due November
1st, 1867, the rent to be paid.
Notwithstanding this,- Graham, in November of 1867,
transferred the whole crop to certain correspondents of his,
Butt & Co., who were heavily in advance for him on then
existing transactions. They sold the crop and applied the
proceeds in account to the payment of Graham's debt to
them.
Hereupon Ellett filed a bill in the court below against
Butt & Co., to charge them, as trustees for him, with the
proceeds of the crop.
The evidence showedOn the one hand, that planting never begins in Mississippi
earlier than March; and,
On the other,
That on the 6th of February, 1867, the defendants had
seen the lease with the mortgage provision in it, but apparently that they regarded the provision as void. It also
showed that on learning that Graham had transferred the
crop of 1867 to Butt & Co., Ellett immediately wrote to
them, informing them that the lease with the mortgage in it
had been at once duly recorded; that, besides, they had express notice of its existence, and that he would hold them
accountable as trustees for the proceeds of the crop if they
sold it.
The court below decreed in favor of the complainant, and
the defendant brought the case here.
VOL. XIX .

85

BUTT V. ELLETT.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the mortgagee.

11 1arr and T. A. Clarke, for the appellants:
Messrs. 1.
The crop of 1867 was not susceptible of sale or mortgage,
in January, 1867. The seed was not in the ground. Planting could commence at the earliest in March. The crop had
no potential existence. The land had no power of itself to
bring forth cotton. The seed was the essential potential
agency to produce cotton. This difers from the existence
of a crop of hay, or a fleece of sheep. The roots of the
former are either natural to the soil or may be perennial.
The fleece is a necessary consequence of the natural healfhful existence of the sheep.
The cases on the question at issue are collected and reviewed in Hilliard on Mortgages.* Citing Milliman v. Nehert
and Comstock v. Scales,T that author says: "_A mortgage of
future crops is held void."
In Cudworth v. Scott :ยง "A mortgage was given in January,
1859, of ' all the hay and grain that grows on the farm on
which I now live, the present year:' Reld, to be good for
the hay and winter rye, which were in esse at the time of the
execution of the mortgage, but not for the grain crop of the
spring of 1859."
So, in Massachusetts, that which is not in esse cannot be
mortgaged.11
Messrs. Estes, Jackson, and Ellett, contra:
1Notwithstanding some want of harmony in the authorities
it is believed to be the settled doctrine, especially in the
courts of the United States, that a mortgage, such as this
When the parties intend to create
was, is perfectly good.
12, 18.
7 Wisconsin, 159.
t"20 Barbour, 37.
Moody v.Wright, 13 Metcalf, 17,
41 New Hampshire, 456.
Pennock v. Coo, 23 Howard, 117; Dunham v.Railway Co., 1 Wallace,
254; Tedford v.Wilson, 3 Head, 311; Robinson v. Mauldin, 11 Alabama
980; Bryan v.Smith, 22 Id. 534; Floyd v. M[orrow, 26 Id. 353; Curtis v.
.uber, 1 Jacob & Walker, 510; Sillers v. Lester, 48 Mississippi, 513;
Smithurst v.Edmunds, 1 McCarter, 408.
chap. 42, 4th edition, pp. 414, 416,
* Vol. it,

Oct. 1871.]

BUTT V. ELLETT.

547

Opinion of the court.

a lien u> )n property not then in actual existence, it attaches
iu equit- as soon as the person who grants the lien acquires
the proi rty. In this case, the making of the crop was the
end ane object of the lease, and it was the express intention
of bott parties that the lessor should have a lien upon the
crop tc be grown, as security for the payment of the rent.
Mr. fustice S WAYNE delivered the opinion of the court.
The mortgage clause in the contract of lease of the 15th
of January, 1867, executed by Sillers and Graham, could
not operate as a mortgage, because the crops to which it
relates were not then in existence. When the crops grew,
the lien attached an( bound them effectually from that time.
It is admitted that the cotton in question was one of those
crops.

Ellett having bought the premises became clothed with
all the rights of Sillers, touching the rent stipulated to be
paid by Graham. The sheriff's deed conveyed the reversion,
and the rent followed it as an incident. The lease passed
by assignment to the grantee, and all its provisions in favor
of the lessor enured to the benefit of the assignee. The appellants had full notice of the rights of Sillers. They read
the lease a few days after its execution. Ellett also notified
them of his rights and claim. The cotton went impressed
with his lien into their hands. When they sold it they took
the proceeds in trust for his benefit, and became liable to
him for the amount.
DECREE AFFIRMED.

