Oct. 1873.]

STOWE V. UNITED STATES.

Syllabus.

Eastern District of Arkansas. The diminution alloged was'
that the clerk of the court below had not appended to the
transcript his certificate that the transcript contained the
whole record.
Mr. Justice CLIFFORD delivered the opinion of the court.
A motion for certiorari is founded upon a suggestion of
diminution, and is designed to bring up some part of the
record left back and not included in the transcript. When
first presented, and without explanation, the court was inclined to grant the motion, but upon further consideration,
we are all of the opinion that it must be denied, as the writ
of certiorari is not a proper remedy for the alleged defect.
Nothing is omitted from the transcript which is a part of
the record in the court below. On the contrary, the only
complaint is that the clerk has not appended to the transcript his certificate that it contains the full record.

Such a

defect, in a case of contumacy, might be remedied by a
mandamus, but no application. of that sort is made nor is it
suggested that there are any grounds for such an applica-

tion. Under the circumstances the motion for certiorari is
denied, and leave is granted to the plaintiff in error to witbdraw the transcript to enable him to apply to the clerk of
the court below to append thereto the necessary certificate.

STOWE V. UNITED STATES.
Where a party gives to another a power of attorney, in blank, and defec" to collect and receive any and
tively witnessed, authorizing all moneys due to him" from the government under an agreement
specified, "and to make a good and sufficient release, acquittal or receipt for the same," and generally to do any and all things necessary in
the premises-this power being by statute 1 null and void" from the
defective execution-and the person to whom the power is thus given
fills the blank with the name of an attorney at law, and instructs him
to sue the government, and the attorney files a petition in the Court of
Claims in the name of the principal in the power, It t) the use and

STOWE V.

UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct

Statement of the case.
benefit" of the person to whom the power was delivered, the petition
representing that such person is the person beneficially interested, and
the principal-though not authorizing the suit-subsequently, with
knowledge of the facts, suffers the suit to proceed and co-operates in its
prosecution, and while the action is pending, a settlement is effected
between the person to whom the power was delivered and the government (the principal to the power being no party to the settlement, but
allowing it to proceed without objection), and the money is paid under
the settlement, but owing to the law officers of the government not
being advised of the settlement, the suit is not formally withdrawnthe principal in the power cannot, afterwards, file an amended petition
alleging that the power was not intended to, and did not confer any
power or authority on anybody to do more than to prosecute the claim
to settlement, and to receive any draft in the name of the principal; and
so claim payment under the contract himself. He is estopped by his
own action from disputing the validity of the settlement.

from the Court of Claims, the case as found by
that court being this:
In October, 1863, the quartermaster's department entered
into a written contract with one Stowe, to deliver mixed
grain at certain prices agreed on. The contract was fulfilled, and a balance found due upon it to Stowe. The
government having neglected to pay a portion of this
balance, Stowe, at the request of one White, executed a
power of attorney-uin blank as respected the name of the
attorney-to get the balance yet claimed as due. The
for the principal, Stowe, to collect
power authorized and receive any and all moneys due and coming due to him
the said Stowe, "and to make, execute, and deliver to any
officer or person authorized by the government to pay said
moneys a good and sufficient release, acquittal or receipt
for the same, or any part that may be paid to my said attorney, and generally to do any and all things necessary in
the premises." This power in blank Stowe delivered to
White. It was not executed before two witnesses, but was
acknowledged before and witnessed by a notary public.
An act of Congress of February 26th, 1853,* in force at
the time of these transactions, enacted:
APPEAL

* 10 Stat. at Large, 170.

Oct. 1873.]

STOWE V. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the case.

"That all transfers and assignments of any claim upon the
United States, . .. and all powers of attorney. .. for receiving
payment of any such claim, or any part or share thereof, shall
be absolutely null and void, unless the same shall be freely
made and executed in the presence of at least two attesting
witnesses."
The government still declining to pay the balance, White
filled the blank in the power with the name of two attorneys, one being Mr. Fuller, and instructed him to bring suit
in the Court of Claims against the government. Mr. Fuller
appearing as the attorney did accordingly file a petition in
the name of Stowe, "to the use and benefit of White," and
in it he represents that " White furnished the grain delivered to the United States." Stowe did not communicate
with Mr. Fuller, the attorney of record, until after the suit
was brought, nor did he authorize its institution, unless such
authority was conferred by the power of attorney. Subsequently, with knowledge of the facts, he suffered the suit
to proceed and co-operated with White in its prosecution.
While the action was still pending, a settlement was effected
between White and the government; and the money agreed
on by the settlement to be paid, was paid to White. Stowe
was not a party to this settlement, but he allowed it to proceed without objection or disclosure of any adverse interest.
The suit was not formally discontinued, because the law
officers of the government were not advised of the settlement.
Stowe afterwards, by leave of the court, filed an amended
petition, in which he represented that he, Stowe, had furnished the grain; and that though he had given to White a
power of attorney in blank, yet that the power was not intended to, and did not, confer any power or authority on
White or any attorney to do more than prosecute the claim
to settlement, and to receive any draft in the name of him,
Stowe, for any amount that should be admitted as due. He
now accordingly prayed payment to himself for the grain
already paid for to White, in the way abovementioned.
The Court of Claims on hearing the case dismissed it on

STOWE V. UINITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

the ground of the conclusiveness of" the settlement with
White, and from this, its action, Stowe took this appeal.
Mr. Reverdy Johnson, for the appellant, argued that under
the act of Congress of 1853 the power of attorney, not being
attested by two witnesses, was "absolutely null and void,"
and that this being so, the right of Stowe to receive the sum
was absolute, and could not be destroyed by the doings of
the counsel who prosecuted the claim, and misrepresented
(unintentionally it was conceded) the relation of White to
the matter.
Mr. S. F. Phillips, Solicitor-General, contra.
Mr. Justice DAVIS delivered the opinion of the court.
We think that the claim was rightly dismissed on the
ground of the conclusiveness of the settlement with White.
Stowe, by his own action, is estopped from disputing the validity of the settlement. If it be conceded that the power of
attorney was not an effective instrument for any purpose,
because not executed in conformity with law, the concession
cannot operate to the advantage of Stowe, because he acted
in such a way after the suit was brought as to preclude him
from assuming the position he took in his amended petition.
This action has induced the accounting officers of the government to treat White as the only party in interest, and if
loss is suffered on this account, it should not be borne by
the defendants. Stowe, in suffering the suit to proceed, and
co-operating with White's attorney in its prosecution, cannot be heard to say that the statements contained in the petition are not true. It would be wrong to allow him to
stand by and see the suit settled on the basis of the truth
of those statements, and then to turn round and take a new
position because the partial interest which he held in the
claim was left unprotected by the settlement. If there be
cause of complaint against any one for the failure to protect
this interest, it is not against the defendants whose officers
conducted and completed the negotiation, on the faith that

Oct. 1873.]

SALOMON V. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the case.

White, as declared in the petition, was the real owner of the
claim, and that the suit was prosecuted for his benefit. In
assisting to carry o-n this suit, Stowe adopted the proceeding
on which it was based, and in effect notified the defendants
that they could safely settle the cause of action with the
attorney of record. Besides, in taking charge of it after
the settlement and asking leave to amend the petition, he
recognized the authority of the counsel who instituted it;
and it is very clear, that The amendment which he was permitted to file, could not affect rights acquired while the suit
as originally framed was pendig.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

SALOMON V. UNITED STATES.
1. The act of June, 1862, requiring contracts for military supplies to be in
writing, is not infringed by the proper officer having charge of such
matter accepting delivery of such supplies after the day stipulated, nor
is a verbal agreement to extend the time of performance invalid.
2. When, under a written contract, made by a person to deliver such supplies as, ex. gr., corn at one time fixed, the quartermaster in charge receives part of the corn from such person for the government, and then
at a later date, no objection being made to the delay, receives the rest,
and gives a receipt and voucher for the amount and the price, and the
government uses such part of it as it wants, and suffers the remainder
to decay by exposure and neglect, there is an implied contract to pay the
value of such corn, which value may, in the absence of other testimony,
be presumed to be the price fixed in the voucher by the quartermaster.

from the Court of Claims; the case being thus:
A statute of June 2d, 1862,* thus enacts:
APPEAL

"It shall be the duty of the Secretary of War, Secretary of
the Navy, &c., to cause and require every contract made by
them severally on behalf of the government, or by their officers
under them appointed, to be reduced to writing, and signed by
the contracting parties with their names at the end thereof."
* 12 Stat. at Large, 411.

VOL.

x.

2

