MACFARLAND v. BROWN.
Syllabus.

The plaintiff obtained a judgment m the Circuit Court, and
that judgment was affirmed by the Circuit Court of Appeals
for the Eighth Circuit. The case is reported m 104: Fed. Rep.
380. The cause was then brought here by a writ of error. We
think the proper course was to have asked for a writ of certiorari to bring the final judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals here for review However, under the powers possessed
by us under the judiciary act of March 3, 1891, we now allow
a writ of certiorari, and direct that the copy of the record heretofore filed under the writ of error shall be taken and deemed
as a sufficient return to the certiorari.
The questions presented are similar to those just decided in
the case of Security Trust Company v. Black River NBational
Bank, tried m the same court, and where the parties were represented by the same counsel which appear in this one.
Accordingly, for the reasons given in the opinion in that
case,
The judgment of the Circuit Court of Apyeuk ss reversed,
the judgment of the Circuit Court ¢Z likewmse reversed, and
the cause s remanded to that court ith directions to enter
judgment sn accordancewith the opnmson of th court.

MACFARLAND v. BROWN.
APPEAL

FROM! THE COURT

OF

APPEALS

OF

THE

DISTRICT

OF

COLUMhBIA.
No. 331. Argued November 5, 1902.-Decided December 1, 1902.

A judgment or decree to be final, within the meaning of that term as used
in the acts of Congress giving this court jurisdiction on appeals and writs
of error, must terminate the litigation between the parties on the merits
of the case, so that if there should be an affirmance here, the court below
would Ihave nothingto do but to execute the judgment or decree it had
already rendered. Bostwzck v. .Brinkerhoff,106 U. S. 3, followed.
When, therefore, the Court of Appeals of the District of Columbia reverses
an order of the Supreme Court of the District in proceedings for the con-

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Statement of the Case.
demnation of land under the act of Congress of March 3, 1899, 30 Stat.
1381, and remands the case to the lower court for further proceedings as
directed by the statute, the decree of the Court of Appeals is not such a
final judgment as is reviewable m this court and an appeal therefrom will
be dismissed.
See also M cfarlandv. Byrnes decided this term, p. 246, post.
UNDER the act of Congress entitled "An act for the extension
of Pennsylvania avenue southeast, and for other purposes," approved March 3, 1899, 30 Stat. 1381, the Commissioners of the
District of Columbia were by the terms of section 5 of said act
"authorized and directed to institute by a petition in the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia, sitting as a District
Court, a proceeding to condemn the land necessary for the extension and widening of Sherman avenue from Florida avenue
.to Whitney avenue with the uniform width of one hundred
feet." The provisions of said section 5 are as follows
"Src.. 5. That within ninety days after the approval of this
act the Commissioners of the District of Columbia be, and they
are hereby, authorized and directed to institute by a petition
in the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia, sitting as a
District Court, a proceeding to condemn the land necessary for
the extension and widening of Sherman avenue from Florida
avenue to Whitney avenue with the uniform width of one hundred feet.
"That of the amount found due and awarded for damages
for and in respect of the land condemned under this act for the
extension and widening of said Sherman avenue not less than
one half thereof shall be assessed by said jury in said proceedings against those pieces or parcels of ground abutting on both
sides of Sherman avenue, and the extension thereof as herein
provided, to a distance of three hundred feet from the building
lines on the east and west sides of Sherman avenue as widened
and extended Provided, That no assessment shall be made
against those pieces or parcels of ground out of which land has
already been dedicated to the District of Columbia for the purpose of widenimg Sherman avenue as herein provided for,"
Under the authority thereby conferred a petition was filed
by the Commissofiers-of the District of Columbia in the Sn-

MACFARLAND v. BROWN.
Statement of .the Case.

preme Court of the District of Columbia, sitting as a District
Court, upon the 31st day of May, 1899, being No. 555 on the
District Court docket, praying that the court direct the marshal of the District of Columbia to summon a jury of seven
judicious, disinterested men, not related to any party interested,
to be and appear on the premises on a day specified, to assess
the damages, if any, which each owner of land through which
Sherman avenue is proposed to be extended and widened, as
aforesaid, may sustain by reason thereof, and that such other
and further orders might be made and proceedings had as were
contemplated by said act of Congress and by chapter XI of the
Revised Statutes of the United States relating to the District
of Columbia, to the end that a permanent right of way for the
public over the said lands might be obtained and secured for the
aforesaid extension and widening of Sherman avenue.
Upon this petition the said court on the 16th day of September, 1899, passed an order requiring interested parties to
appear in said court on or before the 2d day of October, 1899,
and show cause why the prayer of said petition should not be
granted, and why the proceedings directed in said act of
Congress should not be taken. Pursuant to such order, the
jury were summoned and empaneled by the marshal, and upon
the 7th day of February, 1900, were sworn according to law,
and thereafter the said jury proceeded according to the provisions of chapter XI of the Revised Statutes of the United States
relating to the District of Columbia, and having been upon the
premises, in accordance with said statute, on the 1st day of May,
A. D. 1900, made out their written verdict, which was signed
by a majority of the said jurors. Upon the 9th day of May,
1900, the same was filed in the said court under the act of
March 3, 1899.
Thereafter, on the 3d day of July, 1901, the trial court.passed
an order nwi confirming said verdict, and requiring all parties
to appear and show cause on or before July 22 why such verdict
should not be finally confirmed by the court. Upon July 22,
1901, the appelleesi in response to said order, filed their exceptions to said verdict.
The court, having heard arguments upon the said exceptions,
VOL. CiXxxvn-16

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

on October 2,. 1901, passed an order overruling the said exceptions and finally ratifying and confirming in all respects the
said verdict.
Thereupon the appellees appealed the case to the Court of
Appeals. The Court of Appeals reversed the trial court, from
winch decision the commissioners of the District of Columbia
have appealed to this court.
2fr Andrew B. _Duvall and .2- Arthur H. O'Connor for
appellants. Mr Edward H Thomas was with them on the
brief.
.Mr Samuel 2faddox for appellees.
MR.

JUsTiE Sni.&s, after making the foregoing statement,

delivered the opinion of the court.
Whether those provisions of section 263 of the Revised
Statutes of the District of Columbia which provide for a second
jury are applicable to this proceeding under the act of March 3,
1899, whether, if entitled to a second jury, the appellees
waived such right by filing, in the Supreme Court of the District, exceptions to the verdict and award of the first jury and
by appealing-from the order of that court, overruling their exceptions and affirming said verdict and award, to the Court of
Appeals of the District; and whether it was the duty of the
commissioners, and not the duty of the parties claiming to
have been dissatisfied with the verdict, to demand a second
jury, if a right to such -juryexists, are important questions, and
we can well- understand why .those who are entrusted with the
administration of the law are anxious to have them speedily
and finally determined.
But we are of opinion that the. case is not before us in a condition to make it our duty to deal with those questions. The
decree of the Court of Appeals, reversing the order of the Supreme Court, and remanding the cause to that court, "thatproceedings may be taken and a jury of twelve ordered as directed by the statute," is not a final decree from which an appeal will lie to this court.

MACFARLAND v. BROWN.
Opinion of the Court.

It is contended by the learned counsel of the appellants that
the case is within the rulings of this court m PAilli]ps v . eg/ey, 117 U. S. 665, and in lumphrws v L utrwt of CoZumbba,
174 U. S. 190. It is true that in the rst of those cases this
court entertained a writ of error to the Supreme Court of the
District and reversed its judgment. But, in disposing of the
question raised whether the judgment of the court below was
or was not a final judgment, this court said.
"Interpreting the judgment of the general term by the-opinion of the.Jearned judge, who spoke for the court, Phigi 8 v.
_Yegley, 2 Mackey, 263, we must infer that it was intended to
dismiss the appeal for want of jurisdiction to entertain it, on
the ground that the order of the special term, vacating its own
judgment, rendered at- a previous term, was not only within the
power of that court, but was so purely discretionary that it was
not reviewable m an appellate court. The same consideration
is urged upon us as a ground for dismissing the present writ of
error for want of jurisdiction m this court, it being alleged that
the order of the Supreme Court of the District at special term
is one not only within the discretion of that court, but that, as.
it merely vacates a judgment for the purpose of a new trial upon
the merits of the original action, it is not a final judgment,.and,
therefore, not reviewable on writ of error. If, properly considered, the order in question was an order in the.cause, which
the court had power to make at the term when it was made,
the consequence may be admitted, that no appellate tribunal
has jurisdiction to question its propriety, for, if it had power
to make it, and .it was a.power limited only by the discretion
of the court making it, as in other cases of orders setting aside
judgments at the same term at which they were rendered, and
granting new trials, there would be nothing left for the jurisdiction of an -appellate court to act upon. The vacating of a
judgment and grantipig a new trial, in the exercise of an ackhowled.ged jurisdictidnf lea-ves no judgment in force to be reviewed. If, on the other hand; the order made was made without jurisdiction on the part of the court making it, then it is a
proceeding which must be the subject of review by-an appellate
court. The question of the jurisdiction of this court to enter-

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

tarn the present writ of error, therefore, necessarily involves
the jurisdiction of the Supreme Court of the District, both at
special and general term, and the nature and effect of the order
brought into review, so that the question of our jurisdiction is
necessarily included in the question of the validity of the proceeding itself.
"The legal proposition involved in the -judgment complained
of, and necessary to maintain it, is, that the Supreme Court of
this District at special term has the same discretionary power
over its judgments, rendered at a previous term of the court,
without any motion or other proceeding to that end' made or
taken at that term, to set them. aside and grant new trials of
the actions in which they were rendered, which it has over
judgments, when such proceedings are taken during the term
at which they were rendered, and that this being true, the
proceeding and order of the court, in the exercise of this jurisdidtion and discretion, cannot be reviewed on appeal or writ of
error."
The court proceeded to consider the question at length, and
having determined that the Supreme Court. of the District had
no discretionary power to set aside judgments 6btained at a previous term where no proceeding for that purpose had been taken
at that term, held that the court had acted without jurisdiction,
and that its judgment was void and reviewable on error.
The distinction between that case and the present one is,
therefore, seen in the fact that, in the one, the Supreme Court
of the District acted without jurisdiction, and in the other the
Court of Appeals -was in the regular exercise of its appellate
power in reversing the judgment of the Supreme Court of the
District and awarding further proceedings. Such action in the
present case may have been erroneous, but if so we cannot correct it until brought before us by an appeal from a final judgment. The further proceedings may possibly reach such a
result that neither party will desire an appeal.
In Hume v Boww, 148 U S. 245, where this court dismissed
a writ of error to the Supreme- Court of the District of Columbia upon the ground that the judgment brought here by the
writ was not a final judgment, the case of Philp8 v. A'egley

MACFARLAND v. BROWN.
Opinion of the Court.

was considered, and.the distinction between a judgment ordering a new trial when the court has jurisdiction to make such an
order, and a judgment where such jurisdiction does not exist,
was pointed out by the Chief Justice, and it was held that,
in the former case, where jurisdiction existed, a judgment setting aside the judgment of the trial court, and awarding a
new trial, is not a final judgment reviewable on error, and in
the latter case, where jurisdiction had ceased to exist,. by reason
of lapse of time, a judgment awarding a new trial is without
jurisdiction, would be an order in a new proceeding, and, in that
view, final and reviewable.
The other case relied on, Hunmp wev. Distrwt of Columbsa,
was a case where, in the Supreme Court of the District, a verdict had been signed by all twelve of the jurors, but one of them
was disabled by illness from being present in court when the
verdict was delivered. Upon this verdict a judgment was entered. Proceedings in error were taken, but were dismissed by
the Court of Appeals on account of a failure to have the bill of
exceptions prepared in time. Thereafter, and at a succeeding
term, the defendant, against whom judgment had been entered,
filed a motion to vacate the judgment on the ground that there
was no valid verdict, which motion was overruled. On appeal
to the Court of Appeals this decision was reversed and the case
remanded, with instructions to vacate the judgment, to set aside
the verdict and award a new trial. This ruling was based on
the proposition that the verdict was an absolute nullity, and
therefore the judgment resting upon it void, and one which
could be.set aside at any subsequent term. This view of the
nature of the verdict was not approved by this court, which held
that the defect or irregularity in the rendering of the verdict
was mere matter of error, and not one which affected the jurisdiction.
In the present 'case no attack is made on the jurisdiction of
either the Supreme Court of the District or of the Court of Appeals. That the decree of the latter court was not meant to
be final is shown by its language, which does not definitely adjudge the whole subject matter, but anticipates further action
of the Supreme Court. The litigation of the parties on the

OCTOBER TERAL 1902.
Syllabus.

merits of the case has not been terminated. "The rule is well
settled and of long standing that a judgment or decree to be
final, within the meaning of that term as used in the acts of
Congress giving this court jurisdiction on appeals and writs of
error, must terminate the litigation between the parties on the
merits of the case, so that if there should be an affirmance here,
the court below would have nothing to do but to execute the
judgment or decree it had already rendered"? Bostwwk v.
Brnkehof, 106 U. S. 3.
We do not overlook the fact that this statement of the law
was made'in a case where the appeal was taken directly from
the decree of the trial court, but we think the principle on
which the rule rests is applicable where the appeal is from the
decree of an intermediate appellate court.
We are unwilling to make any departure from the rule that
demands finality in a decree to render it subject to review on
appeal. It would be very unfortunate if mere errors in the
administration of statutes, of this character, not going to their
validity, or to the jurisdiction of the courts below, could be
brought here, from time to time, in advance of a final disposition of the controversy
The appeal is
-Dismused.

MACFARLAND v. BYRNES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.
No. 332. Argued November 5, 1902.-Decided December 1, 1902.

A decree of the Court of Appeals of the District of Columbia reversing an
order of the Supreme Court of the District and remanding the cause to
the lower court with directions to vacate the part appealed from and to
take further proceedings according to lawis neither in form nor intention a final decree and is not reviewable in this court on appeal.
See also Macfarland.v. Brown, decided this term, p. 239, ante.

