JOHNSON v. NEW YORK LIME INS. CO.
Syllabus.

the city, and the statute of limitations. These, however, are
ill of a local nature and present no Federal question.
In connection with the power of -the State to convey its interest in these lands to the city, as it attempted to do by the
act of 1867, much reliance is placed by the Transportation
Company upon the case of the Ilnow Central 1B. 1. Co. v.
illinois, 146 UT. S. 387. This case, however, is inapplicable for
two reasons, first, it turns upon the power of the State to convey its right to the soil beneath the iawigable waters of the
State, and of course below low water mark, not to a municipal
corporation whose officers were "created and declared trustees
to holds possess, direct, control and manage the shore and- soil
herein granted-in such manner as they may deem best for the
public good," but to a private railroad corporation to hold and
control for its own purposes, second, that case came to this court
from the Circuit Court of the United States, which was called
upon to declare as an original question what power the State of
Illinois had to convey the property in question to the Illinois
Central Railroad Company, while this case comes up by writ
of error to the Supreme Court of a State, which has itself put
a construction upon an act of its own legislature and upon its
conformity to the constitution of the State. The decision of
that court upon these questions is obligatory upon us.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of Alabama is
Affirmed.

JOHNSON v. NEW YORK LIFE INSURANCE COM-

PANY
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF IOWA.
No.87. Argued November 12, 902.L-Decided January5,1903.

1. A party claiming a title, privilege or immunity under the Constitution
of the United States within the third clause of ยง 709 of the Revised Statutes, which must be specially set up and claimed by the party seeking to
take advantage of it, but which cannot be set up in any pleading anterior

OCTOBER TERMAL 1902.
Statement of the Case.
to the trial, must make the claim either on the motion for new trial or in
the assignments of error filed in the Supreme Court of the State. It is.
insufficient, if it first appears in the petition for a writ of error from this
court.
2. Where the courts of one State fully consider a statute of another State
and the decisions of the courts of that State construing it, and the case
turns upon the construction of the statute and not upon its validity, due
faith and credit is not denied by one State to the statute of another State,
and the manner in which the statute is construed is not necessarily a Federal question.

THIS was an action upon a policy of insurance upon the life
of Frank 0. Johnson, dated December 27, 1890, whereby the
defendant insured his life in the sum of $25,000 for the benefit
of his executors, administrators or assigns. This policy was assigned to the plaintiff in 1895, and on September 28, 1896, Johnson died. The annual premium was fixed at $1060, payable in
advance on November 11 of each year. There was the usual
provision for forfeiture in case of'non-payment of premiums.
The premium was paid on November 11, 1892, but no payments
were made thereafter. After Johnson's death, and on February 20, 1897, plaintiff tendered the past due premiums with interest thereon, which defendant refused to accept, and tins action
was begun.
The insurance company was incorporated under the laws of
th'e State of New York, the policy was issued in that State, and
the application contained an agreement that the contract contained in such, policy and in the application should be construed
according to the laws of the State of New York-the place of
said contract being agreed to be the home office of the company
in the city of New York.
Plaintiff, in reply to the defence of non-payment of premiums,
relied upon the statute of 1877 of the State of New York, which
we have heretofore had occasion to consider in several cases,
and which provided *that "no life insurance company doing
business in the State of ,New York shall have power to declare
forfeited or lapsed any policy hereafter issued or renewed by
reason of non-payment of any annual premium or interest, or
any portion thereof," except upon a written notice to the insured stating the amount of the premium due on the policy, the

JOHNSON v. NEW YORK LIFE INS. CO.
Statement of the Case.

place where it should be paid, and the person to whom the same
was payable, with the further proviso that "no such policy
or lapsed until the exshall in any case be forfeited
.piration of thirty days after the mailing of such notice."
There was, however, in the State of iNew York another statute, commonly known as the net reserve law, giving to holders
of life insurance which had been m force three full years the
benefit of the net reserve on their lapsed or forfeited policies,
by extending the life of the policy beyond the time of the default.
The policy in question contained a stipulation that "if this
policy shall lapse, or become forfeited for the non-payment of
any premium, after there have been paid thereon three full
a paid-up policy will be issued, on demand
premiums,
after such lapse with surrender of this
months
six
within
made,
as this policy, except as to
conditions
same
the
policy, under
such an amount as the net
for
payment of premiums
of
lapse, computed by the
time
the
reserve on this policy at
at 41 per cent, after
interest
American table of mortality, and
deducting all indebtedness to the, company, will purchase as a
single premium, at the present published rates of the company,
at the age of the insured, at the time of lapse:"
On December 10, 1892, about two years after the policy was
issued, Johnson requested the defendant, in writing, to extend
to his policy "the benefits of its accumulation policy" In reply, the company issued a policy or certificate, extending to
his policy the benefits of the accumulation policy plan, and providing that "after this policy shall have been in force three full
years, in case of non-payment of any premium subsequently
due, and upon the payment within thirty days thereafter to the
company of any indebtedness to the company on. account of
this policy 1. the .inisurance will. be extended for the face
amount, as provided in the table- below, or, B, on demand
made within six months after suchnon-payment of such premium dues with surrender of this policy,.paid-up insurdnce will
be issued for the reduced amount provided in said table, or,
3, the policy will be reinstated within the said six months upon
payment of the overdue premium, with interest at the rate of

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Statement of the Case.

five per cent per annum, if the insured is shown to the company
to be in good health, by a letter from a physician in good standlng." By the "table" above mentioned it was provided that
if the premiums were paid to November 11, 1893, the insurance
would be extended to May 11, 1896.
In this connection the company insisted that the. thirty days'
notice law of New York had no application to the contract involved, because the policy sued upon, was, at the.request of the
assured, converted into a paid-up policy for a fixed term, which
term expired before the assured died.
Construing the certificate which extended to the original policy the benefits of the accumulation policy plan of the company,
the Supreme Court of Iowa held "that the clause of the original
policy providing for its forfeiture for the fion-payment of prenums was so far modified and changed that upon such failure
the policy became a paid-up contract for the amount of the
original insurance for a certain and definite term. On demand
of the assured within a fixed period after default, he was given
certain other options, but in default of such demand the term
insuriince, as stated, took effect. No such demand was made
by Johnson. There was no forfeiture of Johnson's life contract, as appellee insists. By the terms of the agreement which
he made, his life contract, upon his default in the payment of
the premium due November 11, 1893, became transmuted into
.
The
a paid-up policy for.a term ending May 11, 1896.
benefits of that statute" (for thirty days' notice) "were given
only to policies which had lapsed or been forfeited for nonpayment of premium, debt, or interest, and the notice had to be given, to effect this forfeiture or fix such lapse. After the
default, the life contract continued in force until it was deterIn the case at bar,
mined according to the statute.
under the modified contract, immediately on- default in payment of the premium of 1893 the policy became a paid-up contract for a term, and, if the assured had died within such term,
plaintiff could recover without payment of the defaulted preiniums. Here the life contract did not run beyond the default
day No act of the company was necessary to put the term
insurance in force. It went into effect by reason of the con-

JOHNSON v. NEW YORK LIFE INS. CO.
Opimon of the Court.

Adopting an illustration of the learned trial
tract.
judge, if Johnson had died on May 10, 1896, plaintiff could have
recovered the full face of this policy, without any further pay. The notice is required
ment being required of her.
only when it is sought to declare the contract fo feited or
Our conclusion is that this was a policy for a
lapsed.
term that expired before Johnson's death, and therefore plaintiff has no right of recovery." 109 Iowa, 708.
'rConstantine J. Skmyth.for plaintiff in error.
.2fr James H. Aoc7*esh for defendant in error. .MrGeorge
W. Hubbell and .Xr .rederw -D .Mc enney were with him on
the brief. ,
MR. JUSTI E BRlcw, after making the foregoing statement,
delivered the opinion of the court.

This case must be dismissed for two reasons.
1. Plaintiff relies for a reversal upon the fact that full faith
and credit were not given to the law of the State of New York
requiring a notice of thirty days before the forfeiture of any
insurance policy, which was pleaded in the case. This however
is a title, right, privilege or immunity claimed under the Constitution of the United States, within the third clause of Rev
Stat. sec. 709, which. must be "specially set up and claimed"
by the party seeking to take advantage of it. Conceding that
it was unnecessary to set it up in any pleading anterior to the
trial, since it could not be claimed that the right had been denied to her until the trial took place, it was clearly her duty
to make the claim either on the motion for a new trial, or in
the assignments of error filed in the Supreme Court of the
State. In neither does it appear, nor is there any allusion to
it in the opinion of the Supreme Court. It first appears in the
petition for a writ of error from this court. This is clearly
insufficient.
2.. The Supreme Court of Iowa did not fail to give due faith
'and credit to the notice law of New York, since it was fully

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Syllabus.

considered, and the decision of the state courts of New York
were called to its attention and cited m its opimon. The court
held that notice is required by that statute only as a basis for
declarinZ a forfeiture or lapse of a policy for non-payment of
premium or interest, and that the law had no application, because
it was a non-forfeitable policy of term insurance, which had expired by limitation before the insured died. Whether the Supreme Court of Iowa was correct in its construction of the
applicability of the New York notice statute to this-policy was
immaterial, since it did not deny the full faith and credit due
to the New York law, but construed it as not applying to the
policy in tis case. The case is covered by that of Banholzer
v New York Life Insurance Co., 178 U. S. 402, and in principle by Glenn v Garth, 147 U. S. 360, Lloyd v .Aatthews, 155
U S. 222. To hold otherwise would render it possible to bring
to this court every case wherein the defeated party claimed
that the statute of another State had been construed to his detriment.
The validity of the New York statute was not called in question. The case turned upon its construction. This was not a
Federal question. Conmermal Bank v Buckngham, 5 How.
317, Baltimore &o. R. .R. Co. v .opk,&ns, 130 U. S. 210.
The writ of error is
Lksmsed.
MRIE. JUsTICE WHITE and

MR. JUSTICE XcKENNA dissented.

DOWNS v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT- COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE FOURTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 318. Argued October 29,1902.-Decided January 5,1903.

When a tax is imposed upon all sugar produced, but is remitted upon all
sugar exported, then, by whatever process or in whatever manner or
under whatever name it is disguised, it is a bounty upon exportation.
As under the laws and regulations of Russia, the Russian exporter of

