OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Syllabus.

have been prosecuted, if they now desire to avail themselves of
that right. They may prefer to forego that right, and they
may prefer no longer to contest the justice and propriety of the
assessments. If they so elect, the court will, of course, enter
the proper order or decree in the cause. If, on the other hand,
they elect further to contest the matter according to law, they
should have the opportunity to do so. This court, therefore,
should snot now direct any final order or decree to be entered
by the court bielow in the premises.
"The order appealed from, and only so far as appealed from,
will be reversed, and the cause will be remanded to the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia, with directions to vacate such part of said order, and for such further proceedings
in the cause according to law as may be right and just."
It-thus .plainly appears that the decree appealed from was
neither in form nor intention a final one. Accordingly, and
for the reasons given in the case of the Commuswners v o]e8se
Brown and Ros Tallach, recently decided, and where a similar question was considered, the motion to dismiss must be
sustained.
Appeal dims8ed.

MENCKE v. CARGO OF JAVA SUGAR.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SECOND
CIRCUIT.
No. 90. Argued November 13, i902.-iDecided December 1, 1902.

Where the charter party of a vessel bound with a cargo of sugar from Java,
to a port in the United States provides that the vessel should discharge
at New York, Boston, Philadelphia or Baltimore "or so near the port of
discharge as she may safely get and deliver the same, always afloat, in a
customary place, and manner, in such dock, as directed by charterers,

agreeably to bills of lading," and also provides "a l l goods to be brought
to and taken from alongside of the ship always afloat at said charterers'
risk and expense, who may direct the same at the most convenient anchorage; lighterage, if any, to reach the port of destination, or deliver

MENCKE v. CARGO OF JAVA SUGAR.
Counsel for Parties.
the cargo at port of destination, remains for account of receivers, any
custom of the port to the contrary notwithstanding," and the vessel has
three steel masts built up solidly from the bottom to the top and so riveted there is no way of taking them down and the mainmast requires one
hundred and forty-five feet of clear space to pass under any obstruction,
which is more than the height at dead low water of the Brooklyn Bridge
over the East River, charterers have no right to order the vessel to discharge at a dock above the Brooklyn Bridge; and if the vessel discharges
by lighterage from the most convenient place below the bridge, the charterers must pay the expense of lighterage from the vessel to the dock.
Under the above conditions it is not a just exercise of the right given to
the charterers by the charter party to select a dock in getting to which
the vessel could not always be afloat or to which she could notsafely get.
Under such circumstances the vessel is not obliged to sail around Long Island and thus reach the dock above the bridge by coming through Long
Island Sound and Hell Gate.

Tnis action was begun by the filing on May 27, 1899, of a
libel in the United States District Court for the Eastern District
of New York, by Anton Mencke, the master of the British ship
Benlarig, against a cargo of sugar that had just been delivered
from the vessel, to recover an unpaid bal'ance of freight due for
conveying the sugar from Java to New York. The receivers
of the cargo, the claimants in the action, had deducted from
the freight the cost of lightering the cargo from the dock where
it had been discharged to the claimants' refinery, which was
above the Brooklyn Bridge. The ship had been ordered by the
claimants to proceed directly to the refinery, but was unable
to do so because the height of her masts was such ttat she could
not pass under the bridge.
The District Court, per Judge Thomas, entered a.decree in
favor of the libellant January 18,1900. 99 Fed. Rep. 298. The
claimants appealed to the United States Circuit Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit, and that court on April 16, 1901,
reversed the decree of the District Court, and remanded the
cause with directions to dismiss the libel. 108 Fed. Rep. 89.
On May 13, 1901, a.writ of certiorari was granted, and the
cause was brought to this court. 181 U. S.620.
Mr. J PawkerKirinfor petitioner.
was with him on the brief.

Xr

Marse R.

ckox

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opumon of the Court.

-Mr Wilhene

s .Mytrnrse for respondents.

MR. JusTrOcn SHiRAS delivered the opinion of the court.

Concerning the facts of the case there is no controversy.
The ship Benlarig was chartered under a charter party dated
London, July 1, 1898, between Watson Brothers, her owners,
and Erdmann,& Sielcken, merchants of Batavia.
The vessel duly loaded a full cargo of sugar at Java, and then
proceeded to Barbadoes. There she received orders to proceed
directly to New York. This _she did, arriving on or about
April 14, 1899. Before or about the time of the arrival-of the
Benlarig at the port of New York the cargo of sugar was sold
and transferred, with the accompanying bills df lading, by the
owners and consignees thereof, to Arbuckle Brothers, sugar
refiners. The agents of the vessel gave notice to Arbuckle
Brothers, on April 15, of the arrival of the vessel, and asked
for orders for a discharging berth, mentioning that the vessel's
mast, being in one piece, would not admit of her going under
the Brooklyn Bridge. Arbuckle Brothers ordered the vessel
to discharge at their refinery at the foot of Pearl street above
the.bridge. Subsequently it was agreed that the cargo should
be discharged at the West Central Pier, Atlantic Dock, below
the bridge, into lighters provided by Arbuckle Brothers, without prejudice to the rights of either party in respect to the payment of the cost of lighterage. This cost amounted to $1466.12,
which was -paid by Arbuckle Brothers and deducted by them
from the freight, and this suit is to recover the balance of the
freight so deducted.
The clear height of the highest span of the Brooklyn Bridge
above mean high water is one hundred and thirty-five feet. At
dead low water there were not more than one hundred and
forty feet in the clear at the highest point.
The Benlarig has three steel masts, built up solid from the
bottom to the 'top, and constructed of cylindrical steel plates,
riveted together with internal angle iron braces. There was
no way of taking any part of the masts down. The mainmast
was one hundred and thirty-nine feet ten inches above the deck;

MENCK9 v. CARGO OF JAVA SUGAR.
Opinion of the Court.

the foremast one hundred and thirty-six feet eight inches above
the deck, and the mizzenmast was one hundred and twenty-mune
feet above the deck, and the deck was froin seven to eight
feet above the loadline of the vessel. The ship, therefore, required one hundred and forty-five feet of clear space in order
to pass underneath the bridge. This was more than five feet
in the clear of the highest point of the bridge when the tide
was at the lowest point of the ebb. An additional margin of
several feet would have to be allowed for safe passageway, and
at the lowest water the Benlarig could not pass under the
bridge without cutting off some eight to ten feet of her steel
masts.
The charter party provided that the Benlarig should load at
Java and should proceed to Barbadoes, "thence to Queenstown
or Falmouth, (as directed by charterers or their agents,) for
orders to discharge, always afloat, either at a safe port in the
United Kingdom or on the continent of Europe between Havre
and Hamburg (both included), Rouen excepted, or at option of
charterers to order vessel from Barbadoes to proceed to Delaware Breakwater for orders to discharge at New York or Boston or Philadelphia or Baltimore, or so near the port of discharge as she may safely get and deliver the same, always afloat,
in a customary place and manner, in such dock, as directed by
charterers, agreeably to bills of lading." Section 4 of the
charter party further provided that "All goods to be brought
to and taken from alongside-of the ship, always afloat, at the
said charterers' risk and expense, who may direct the same at
the most convenient anchorage, lighterage, if any, to reach the
port of destination, or deliver the cargo at port of destination,
remains for account of receivers, any custom of the port to the
contrary notwithstanding."
Four bills of lading were issued at the ports of loading, reciting the "shipment of the sugar, and containing the identical
conditions that the sugar was to be delivered in the like order
and condition at the port of discharge as per charter party
dated London, 1st July, 1898, (the dangers of the sea excepted,)
unto Messrs: Winter & Smillie as agents, or to their assigns, he
or they paying freight for the said sugar as per charter party

OC'OBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

General average, if any, to be settled according to York-Antwerp rules, 1890. All other conditions and exceptions, negligence and Harter Act clauses included, as per charter party
above referred to, with average accustomed."
The positions of the respective parties may be briefly stated
thus
The libellant's contention is that, under clause 1 of the charter party, the right of the charterers or their assigns to select
the dock for the discharge of cargo was subject to the limitation that such dock must be one that was safe and suitable for
the ship as well as for the cargo, and one to which the ship
could proceed without hindrance by permanent obstacles, which
she could not pass without being mutilated, crippled or dismantled, and that, under clause 4 of the charter party, any
lighterage necessary to deliveir the cargo at the port of .destination must be paid by the charterers.
The claimants contend that the discharging berth to which
the Benlarig was ordered was safe for vessels of her class, and
a customary place of discharge, and she should have proceeded
there, or should have delivered her cargo there otherwise at
her own expense, and that the lighterage clause of the charter
party does not relieve the owners of the ship from their obligation to proceed to a designated dock above the bridge, and to
there deliver the cargo.
Another suggestion made on behalf of the claimants, namely,
that the Benlarig, though unable to pass under the bridge,
might have reached the Arbuckle dock by sailing around Long
Island, and then through the Sound and Hell Gate to Brooklyn,
should be first disposed of. It is, perhaps, sufficient to say that
no such allegation appears in the claimants' answer. Nor did
the claimants' assignments of error to the judgment of the District Court raise any such question. Neither did the claimants, during the negotiations, make any such suggestion. Moreover, the District Court and the Circuit Court of Appeals agreed
in the statement that "all shipping experts called by the claimants testified tht they had never heard of a ship from Java
pursuing that coursej and it may therefore be, concluded that
such alternative was contrary to the expectations and. under-

MENOKE v. CARGO OF JAVA SUGAR.
Opinion of the Court.

standing of all parties to this contract, or of any other contract for the carriage of sugar from Java."
The question that remains is, upon which of the parties the
expense of the lighterage should fall. The answer, we think,
must be found in a proper construction of the contract between
them.
It cannot be fairly claimed under the evidence that the expense that would have been occasioned to the owners of the
vessel, if they had removed or taken down the mast, would
have been trifling or inconsiderable. There was some evidence
that, in a few instances, the topmasts of vessels had been taken
down in order to permit them to pass under the bridge, and
that the expense in each case was small. But those were cases
of vessels with wooden masts, so constructed as to permit the
topmast to be lowered. The Benlaiig's masts were wholly of
steel, znd the testimony of her master was that if it became
absolutely necessary to make the vessel pass beneath some obstruction lower than the top of the rmasts, the masts would
either have to be cut or removed wholly out of the ship. What
cost would have been caused by cutting or removing the steel
mast does not appear. But the courts below concurred in
regarding the mutilation or destruction of the ship's masts as a
serious affair.
In such a- condition of affairs we think that resort to lighter-age was natural and reasonable and within the obvious and fair
import of the terms of the charter party The clause, which
is claimed to give the charterers or their assigns the right to
appoint the dock in which- to discharge cargo contains conditions that the port must be -safe, and that the vessel must discharge always afloat, either at a safe port or so near the port
of discharge as she can safely get. It would not be a just exercise of the right to select a dock in getting to which the vessel
could not always be afloat or to which she could not safely get.
A ship could not be said to be afloat, whether the obstacle
encountered was a shoal or bar in the port over which she
could not proceed, or a bridge under or through which she
could not pass, nor could she be said to have safely reached a
dock if required to mutilate her hull or her permanent masts.

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

Any doubt that might be felt as to this construction of the
clause will be -relieved by the express language of section
"All goods to be brought to and taken from alongside of the
ship, always afloat, at the said charterers' risk and expense,
who may direct the same to the most convenient anchorage,
lighterage, if any, to reach the port of destination, or deliver
the cargo at port ofdestination, remains for account of receivers,
any custom of the port to the contrary- notwithstanding."
Here, again, is recognized the right of the ship to be "always
afloat." The anchorage directed must be the "most convenient," which must mean convenient as well for the ship as for
the consignees-, and, finally, if lighterage is necessary, either
to reach the port or to deliver the cargo, the expense thereof is
chargeable to the receivers of the goods, regardless of any local
port customs.
We do not feel constrained to go into an extended consideration of the authorities cited in the briefs of counsel, but shall
refer to two or three cases which, in some of their features,
seem to be applicable.
The case of Tlie Alhanbra,L; R. 6 P Div. 68, was where the
charter party provided that the vessel should go "to a safe
or as near thereunto
port in the United Kingdom,
as she could safely get, and always lay and discharge afloat
lighterage, if any, always at the risk and expense of
the cargo."
The charterers gave orders to the vessel to proceed to Lowestoft and there discharge the cargo. The average high water
in that harbor was about sixteen feet, and average low water
about eleven feet. The master objected to discharging in
Lowestoft harbor, notwithstanding that the purchasers of the
cargo gave him notice that they were prepared at their own expense to lighter the vessel in Lowestoft Roads sufficiently to
enable her to lie always afloat in Lowestoft harbor, if necessary,
should her draught of water so require. The vessel went to
Harwich as the nearest safe port and there discharged the cargo.
The owners of the cargo brought suit for breach of contract,
and offered evidence to show that it was the custom of vessels
which were too deep to enter the port of Lowestoft to discharge

MENCKE u. CARGO OF JAVA SUGAR.
Opimon of the Court.

a portion of their cargo in the roads outside, and that it could be
done with reasonable safety The cargo owners recovered a
judgment, but the Court of Appeals reversed, that court holding that Lowestoft was not a safe port for the vessel within the
meaning of the charter party, and that the custom shown by
the charterers was inadmissible.
This case was cited with approval by this court in The Gazelle, 128 U. S. 474, where the charter party provided that the-

vessel should proceed from Baltimore "to a safe, direct, Norwegian or Danish port, as ordered on signing bills of ladibg, or
as near thereunto as she can safely get, and always lay and discharge afloat."
The charterers tendered to the master for signature bills of
lading, ordering the vessel to the port of Aalborg, in Denmark,
as the port of discharge, "to be landed at Aalborg, or as near
thereto as the vessel can safely get." The master refused to
sign the bills of lading for the reason that Aalborg was not a
safe port. Aalborg- is situated in Denmark on the limiford
Inlet, about seventeen miles from its mouth. Owing to a bar
at the mouth of the Inlet, there was a depth of water of only ten
or eleven feet. The draft of the Gazelle loaded wasabout sixteen feet. The only place of anchorage for a vessel that cannot
cross the bar is off the mouth of the Inlet, where vessels were
accustomed to discharge into lighters. Thereafter the master
filed a libel for demurrage in the District Court of the United
States for the District of Maryland, whose judgment, sustaining the libel and dismissing the cross-libel of the charterers,
was affirmed by the Circuit Court. This court said, through Mr.
Justice Gray
"By the express terms of the charter-party, the charterers
were bound to order the vessel 'to a safe, direct, Norwegian or
Danish port, or as near thereto as she can safely get and always
lay and discharge afloat.' The clear meaning of this is that she
must be ordered to a port which she can safely enter with her
cargo, or which, at least, has a safe anchorage outside where
she can lie and discharge afloat. Dahl v Nreson, 6 App. Cas.
38, The AZhambra. L. R. 6 P Div 68. The charterers insisted
upon ordering her to the port of Aalborg. The Circuit Court

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

has found that Aalborg is in a fiord or inlet having a bar across
its mouth, which it was impossible for the Gazelle to pass, either
in ballast or with cargo, and that the only anchorage outside
the bar is not a reasonably safe anchorage, nor a place where it
is reasonably safe for a vessel to lie and discharge."
The charterers offered evidence to show that by the custom
of trade between Baltimore and the Atlantic ports and the
ports of Norway and Denmark, Aalborg was recogized as
being, and understood to be, a safe, direct port of Denmark,
within the meaning of the charter party In respect to which
this court said "Evidence of a custom to consider as safe a particular port, which in fact is not reasonably safe, would directly
contradict the charter-party, and would therefore be incompetent
as matter of law"
In In re an A i'trationbetween Goodbody & Co. andBalfour,
Willianson & Co., 4 Com. Gas. 119, the facts were that a cargo of
wheat per the ship Vanduara had been sold in a contract conper Vanduara
taining the clause "shipped
sailed or about to sail as per bill or bills of lading dated, etc.,
to any safe port in the United Kingdom of Great
Britain, or to Iavre or to Dunkirk or to Antwerp, calling at
Queenstown, Falmouth, or Plymouth, for orders, as per charter
party Vessel to discharge afloat." The vendees declined to
take the papers on the ground that by the bills of lading the
cargo was stated to have been shipped upon the Vanduara "to
discharge at a safe port in the United Kingdom, Manchester
,excepted," and that such bills of lading did not comply with the
contract for delivery in any safe port in the United Kingdom.
It was found in the special case stated for the decision of the
court that "the Vanduara when loaded with the said cargo
would have been unable to go up the Manchester Ship Canal
to the Manchester Docks, because the heads of her lower main
and mizzeumasts would have been higher than the limit fixed
by the canal company's regulations for passing under the Runcorn Bridge."
The vendors argued that the addition to the bills of lading
of the words, "Manchester excepted," was immaterial, inasmuch
as Manchester, in any event, was not a "safe port" in the sense

MENCKE v. CARGO OF JAVA SUGAR.
Opimon of the Court.

of the bills of lading, as the ship could not reach it without cutting off or taking down her masts, and of that opinion were the
Divisional Court and the Court of Appeal, 5 Com. Cas. 59,
A. L. Smith, L. J., in the latter court saying, "it is abundantly
proved that Manchester taken by itself was not a safe port for
this vessel, because it was found as a fact
that it would
have been necessary to dismantle the ship to enable her to get
under Runcorn Bridge, which is the first bridge vessels going
up the canal to Manchester have to pass." Collins, L. J., was
of the same opinion. And Vaughn Williams, L. J., said "On
the findings of the last award it is perfectly plain that in a commerczal sense the port of Manchester does not extend beyond
Runcorn Bridge. It is not disputed that Manchester in that
sense was not a safe port for the Yauduara to go to.'
This case is pertinent as holding that an overhead bridge
which prevents access to the place designated for the discharge
quite as effectively renders it unsafe for the ship as a sandbar
or other obstacle under the water.
The view of the Circuit Court of Appeals, that the construction put upon the charter party by the District Court was within
its letter but not within its spirit, because " an application to
novel circumstances of clauses intended for a different set of
circumstances," we cannot accept. We are unable to see anything in the undisputed facts of the case that warrants any
other construction of the language employed than that suggested
by its ordinary meaning.
The decree of the Court qf Appeals is reversed, and the decree
of the Distrwt Court 2s affirrned with 'interest thereon from
the i1mWe ft
entry.
VOL. CLxxwI-17

