OCTOBER TERAL 1902.
Syllabus.

merits of the case has not been terminated. "The rule is well
settled and of long standing that a judgment or decree to be
final, within the meaning of that term as used in the acts of
Congress giving this court jurisdiction on appeals and writs of
error, must terminate the litigation between the parties on the
merits of the case, so that if there should be an affirmance here,
the court below would have nothing to do but to execute the
judgment or decree it had already rendered"? Bostwwk v.
Brnkehof, 106 U. S. 3.
We do not overlook the fact that this statement of the law
was made'in a case where the appeal was taken directly from
the decree of the trial court, but we think the principle on
which the rule rests is applicable where the appeal is from the
decree of an intermediate appellate court.
We are unwilling to make any departure from the rule that
demands finality in a decree to render it subject to review on
appeal. It would be very unfortunate if mere errors in the
administration of statutes, of this character, not going to their
validity, or to the jurisdiction of the courts below, could be
brought here, from time to time, in advance of a final disposition of the controversy
The appeal is
-Dismused.

MACFARLAND v. BYRNES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.
No. 332. Argued November 5, 1902.-Decided December 1, 1902.

A decree of the Court of Appeals of the District of Columbia reversing an
order of the Supreme Court of the District and remanding the cause to
the lower court with directions to vacate the part appealed from and to
take further proceedings according to lawis neither in form nor intention a final decree and is not reviewable in this court on appeal.
See also Macfarland.v. Brown, decided this term, p. 239, ante.

MACFARLAND v. BYRNES.
Opinion of the Court.

THE case is stated in the opinion of the court.

XM

Andrew B. Duva7Z and -Hr Arthur H. O'Connorfor

appellants.

XAr. E H. Tkoma was with them on the brief.

Mr Leo Simmon

for appellees.

MR. JusTicE SmHAs delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an appeal from a decree .of the Court of Appeals of
the District of Columbia:, reversing a decree of the Supreme
Court of the District, and there is a motion to dismiss the appeal for the alleged reason that the decree appealed from was
not final, but contemplated further proceedings in the Supreme
Court.
The following paragraph from the opinion of the Court of
Appeals sufficiently discloses the nature of its decree
"There is, however, a third consideration, which we cannot
ignore in the disposition of this case. By the act of Congress
of June 6, 1900, alreAdy mentioned, it was provided that, if for
any reason the assessment for benefits should be declared void,
the commissioners should make application to the court for a
reassessment. This evidently has no reference to the invalidity
consequent upon judicial decision of the unconstitutionality of
the act of Congress of March 3, 1899, for there could then, of
course, be no lawful reassessment, since the foundation for the
whole proceeding would fail. The holding of this court that
the act of March 3, 1899, was unconstitutional did not, therefore, avail to set m motion the instrumentalities of the act of
June 6, 1900, for reassessment. And when the Supreme Court
of the Umted States held the act of 1899 to be a constitutional
and valid exercise of legislative authority all reason for reassessment under the act of 1900 vanished. Nevertheless, by the
discordant tenor of judicial decision the appellees were induced
to forego a right which should now be restored to them, that
of summoning a second jury of assessment under cbapter 11 of
the Revised Statutes of the United States for the District of
Columbia, under which these proceedings were instituted and

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Syllabus.

have been prosecuted, if they now desire to avail themselves of
that right. They may prefer to forego that right, and they
may prefer no longer to contest the justice and propriety of the
assessments. If they so elect, the court will, of course, enter
the proper order or decree in the cause. If, on the other hand,
they elect further to contest the matter according to law, they
should have the opportunity to do so. This court, therefore,
should snot now direct any final order or decree to be entered
by the court bielow in the premises.
"The order appealed from, and only so far as appealed from,
will be reversed, and the cause will be remanded to the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia, with directions to vacate such part of said order, and for such further proceedings
in the cause according to law as may be right and just."
It-thus .plainly appears that the decree appealed from was
neither in form nor intention a final one. Accordingly, and
for the reasons given in the case of the Commuswners v o]e8se
Brown and Ros Tallach, recently decided, and where a similar question was considered, the motion to dismiss must be
sustained.
Appeal dims8ed.

MENCKE v. CARGO OF JAVA SUGAR.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SECOND
CIRCUIT.
No. 90. Argued November 13, i902.-iDecided December 1, 1902.

Where the charter party of a vessel bound with a cargo of sugar from Java,
to a port in the United States provides that the vessel should discharge
at New York, Boston, Philadelphia or Baltimore "or so near the port of
discharge as she may safely get and deliver the same, always afloat, in a
customary place, and manner, in such dock, as directed by charterers,

agreeably to bills of lading," and also provides "a l l goods to be brought
to and taken from alongside of the ship always afloat at said charterers'
risk and expense, who may direct the same at the most convenient anchorage; lighterage, if any, to reach the port of destination, or deliver

