OSHKOSH WATERWORKS CO. v. OSHKOSH.

437

Syllabus.

the cause proceed under its then caption and without the substitution of any other individual as a party, which was postponed to the hearing of the case on its merits.
That hearing has been had, and counsel, in aid of the court,
have made application for the substitution of the admimstratrix of Admiral Sampson, and submitted considerations in
respect of the substitution also of one or more officers, as, and
if, deemed necessary,..
We think some one to carry on the proceedings in the interest of all should be substituted, but that it is not necessary
that the personal representatives of those who may have deceased should come in, or that any person should ex officio be
designated. The matter is merely one of convenience and
without significance in itself.
Rear Admiral Evans, Rear Admiral Taylor, Captain French
E. Chadwick, and others are represented in the litigation by
counsel; but Rear Admiral Schley and others are not. Of
those so represented, Rear Admiral Evans is absent on a foreign station, while Rear Admiral Taylor is within the jurisdiction. It seems to us that the substitution of Rear Admiral
Taylor will satisfactorily meet the exigency, and it will be
Ordered accordingly.

OSHKOSH WATERWORKS'COMPAINY v. OSHKOSH.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF WISCONSIN.
No. 74. Argued November 6, 1902.-fDecided January 5, 1903.

1. While, in a general sense, the laws in force at the time a contract is made
enter into its obligation, parties have no vested right in the paiticular
remedies or modes of procedure then existing.
2. The Legislature may ifot withdraw all remedies, and thus, in effect, destroy the contract;.nor impose such new restrictions or conditions as
would materially delay or embarrass the enforcement of rights under the
contract, according to the course of justice as established when the contract wvas mude. Neither could be done without impairing the obligation

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.
of the contract. But the Legislature may change existing.remedies or
modes of procedure, without impairing the obligation of contracts, if a
substantial or efficacious remedy remains or is provided, by means of
which a party can enforce his rights under the contract.
The contract clause of the Constitution of the United States has reference
only to a statute of a State enacted after the making of the contract
whose obligation is alleged to have been impaired.

THE

case is stated in the opinion of the court.

.M' .Ms8 Hooper for plaintiff in error.
.Mr John F.
MR.

JUSTIE H

uuywn for defendant in error.
AIhi

delivered the opinion of the court.

This case presents a question under the clause of the Constitution of the United States wnch prohibits a State from
passing a law impairing the obligation of contracts.
The question arose upon demurrer by the defendant, the city
of Oshkosh, to the complaint filed against it on the 16th day of
June, 1900, by the Oshkosh Waterworks Company, a municipal
corporation of Wisconsin. The principal ground of demurrer
was that the complaint did not state facts sufficient to constitute
a cause of action.
The complaint set forth two causes of action, on the first one
.of which the company claimed a judgment for $4085, which
was alleged to be due from the city under an agreement made
between it and the company on Jine 18, 1883, in reference to
the building and maintaining by the company of a waterworks
plant for supplying water for domestic and fire purposes, and
the renting of public fire hydrants.
On the second cause of dction the company asked a judgment
for $1060, which amount was claimed under an agreement of
the 31st day of August, 1891, huving reference to the company's
extensions of its then existing mains, and therentals to be paid
by the city for hydrants to be located on such extensions.
After the contract of 1883 was made the charter of the city was
amended and revised-the revision taking effect March 23, 1891.

OSHKOSH WATERWORKS CO. v. OSHKOSH.

439

Opimon of the Court.

The revised charter contained certain provisions as to suits
against the city, imposing on suitors conditions or restrictions
that did not previously exist.
The company insisted that the revised charter could not be
applied to this suit without impairing the obligation of its contracts with the city This view was rejected by the state court,
the demurrer was sustained and the suit dismissed.
The general principles which must control in determining
whether a state enactment impairs the obligation of contracts
have become so firmly established by the decisions of this court
that any further discussion of their soundness would be inappropriate. It is only necessary to recall them, and then ascertain their applicability to the particular state legislation now
alleged to be repugnant to the Constitution of the United
States.
It is well settled that while, in a general sense, the laws in
force at the time a contract is made enter into its obligation,
parties have no vested right in the particular remedies or modes
of procedure then existing. It is true the Legislature may not
withdraw all remedies, and thus, m effect, destroy the contract,
nor may it impose such new restrictions or conditions as would
materially delay or embarrass the enforcement of rights under
the contract according to the usual course of justice as established when the contract was made. Neither could .be done
without impairing the obligation of the contract. But it is
equally well settled that the Legislature may modify or change
existing remedies or prescribe new modes of procedure, without impairing the obligation. of contracts, provided a substantial or efficacious remedy remains or is given, by means of
which a party can enforce his rights under the contract. Green
v. Biddle, 8 Wheat. 1, 85, Bronson v. inzwe, 1 How 311, 317,
Planteri' Bank v Sharp, 6 How 301, 397, WaZker v. Whitehead, 16 Wall. 314, 317, Murray v. Chaqrledton, 96 U. S. 432,
438, Edwa?ds v fearzey, 96 U. S. 595, 601, Vance v. Vance,
108 U. S. 514, 518, AEcGahey v. Virgsnsa, 135 U. S. 685, 693,
Barnitz v Beverly, 163 U. S. 118, MJfcCullough v Virgmsa,
172 U. S. 102, 104. The decisions -f the Supreme Court of
Wisconsin as to what are to be deemed laws impairing the obli-

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

gations of contracts are in harmony with the decisions of this
court. LTAgtfoot v CoZe, 1 Wisconsin, 26, 34, Ton .Baumbach
v. Bade, 9 Wisconsin, 559, Pawwe v Woodworth, 15 Wisconsin,
ns. Co. v Neeves, 46 Wisconsin, 147;
298, Northwetern,.ufut.
54; Rosenthal v Wehe, 58 .Wis49
Wisconsin,
Lee v. Bukhezt,
621.
consin,
Having these principles in view, we proceed to inqire whether
the revised charter of Oshkosh so changed existing remedies for
the enforcement of contract rights against municipal corporations as to impair the obligation of the contract made in1883
between the Waterworks Company and the city
By the act of the Wisconsin Legislature revising and amending the charter of the city of Oshkosh, that mumcipal corporation was made capable of suing and being sued in all courts of
law and equity Laws of Wisconsin, 1883, vol. 2, p. 687, c. 1,
§ 1. The same act provided that all moneys,-credits and demands of the city should be under the control of the common
council, and "be drawn out only upon the order of the mayor
and city clerk, duly authorized by a vote of the common council?' 2 Laws of 1883, p. 124, c.7,§ 1. It was further provided that "any account or demand against the city, before
'acted on or paid, the council may require the same to be
verified by aidavit, except salaries and amounts previously
fixed or determined by law, and any person who shall falsely
swear to any such amount or demand shall be deemed guilty
of perjury, and shall be punished according to law." 2 Laws
.of1883, p. 726, c.', § 10.
The Supreme Court of Wisconsin, in its opinion, states that
except for the above restrictions upon the payment of money,
the city of Oshkosh was, in 1883, subject to be sued upon contract liability like any private person or corporation.
But by the city's amended charter of 1891 certain changes
were made, and the question is whether those changes,'if applied to the contract of 1883, would impair its obligation. 2
Laws of Wisconsin, 1891, P. 321, c. 59,
The revised charter -retained substantially the above provisions in the charter of 1883, and the following, among other,
additions, were made

OSHKOSH WATERWORKS 00. v,OSHKOSH.

441

Opinon of the Court.

"§ 4. No action shall be maintained by any person against

the city upon any claim or demand until such person first shall
have presented his claim or demand to the common council
for allowance, and the same shall have been disallowed in
whole or in part Provided,That the failure of such common
council to pass upon such claim within sixty days after the
presentation of such claim shall be deemed a disallowance
thereof.
"§ 5. The determination of the common council disallowing
m whole or in part any claim shall be final and conclusive, and
a bar to any action in any court founded on such claim, unless
an appeal be taken from. the decision of such common council
as in this act provided.
"§ 6. Whenever any claim against the city shall be disallowed
in whole or in part by the common council, such person may
appeal from the decision of such common council disallowing
said claim to the Circuit Court of the county in which the city
is situated, by causing a written notice of such appeal to be
served on the clerk of the city within twenty days after the
making of the decision disallowing such claim, and by executing a bond to the city in the sum of one hundred and fifty
dollars, with two sureties to be approved by the city attorney
and comptroller, conditioned for the faithful prosecution of such
appeal and the payment of all costs that shall be adjudged
against the appellant in the Circuit Court. The clerk, in case
such appeal is taken, shall make a brief statement of the proceedings had m the case before the common council with its
decision thereon and shall transmit the same, together with all
the papers in the case, to the clerk of the Circuit [Court] of
the county Such case shall be entered, tried and determined
in the same manner as cases originally commenced in said
court P'omded, however, That whenever an appeal is taken
from the allowance made by the common council upon any
claim, and the recovery upon such appeal shall not exceed the
amount allowed by the common council exclusive of interest
upon such allowance, the appellant shall pay the costs of appeal,
which shall be deducted from the amount of the recovery, and
when the amount of costs exceed the amount recovered, judg-

OCTOBER TERIM, 1902.
Opimon of the Court.

ment shall be rendered against the appellant for the amount of
such excess.' 2 Laws of 1891,.p. 412,.c. 21.
It is not alleged in the complaint that the Waterworks Company before commencing this action presented its claims to the
common council for allowance.
The company contends that if the above provisions are construed to mean what the Supreme Court of Wisconsin have de6lared similar provisions in other municipal charters to mean
then such burdens and restrictions have been imposed upon the
enforcement of its contract with the city of Oshkosh as to impair its obligation. This suggestion renders it necessary to-ascertain the import of those decisions.
In D- nkwne v City of Eau Clazre, 83 Wisconsin, 428, 430,
'it appeared that Drinkwine preferred a claim against the city
of Eau Claire, which was disallowed by the common council.
He appealed from that action of the council, and executed a
bond, which recited that he had appealed to the Circuit Count
of Eau Clatre County, and conditioned for the payment of all
costs that should be adjudged against him by the court aforesaid, and-not generally by the court, as prescribed by the stat-ute. It was contended that the bond was insufficient since, in
the event of a change of venue m the case, the surety would
not be bound by a judgment for costs in the court that actually
tried the case. After referring to prior cases in that and in
'other courts, particularly to Sharp v Bedell, 10 Illinois, 88, m
which it had been held that if an appellant failed to complysubstantially with the requirements of the statute in relation to
the perfecting of appeals the Circuit Court did not acquire jurisdiction of the person of the opposite party or of the subject
matter, and should dismiss the appeal, the Supreme Court of
Wisconsin said

"The liability of a surety is stctissimijlz n,

and cannot -be extended by implication. He has a right to
The deviastand on the exabt words of his contract.
tion from the statutory requirement is one of substance. The
surety may have been quite willing to enter into the engagement to pay the costs, if the appellant should be defeated on a
trial in Eau Claire County, in the city where the alleged cause
of action arose, and quite unwilling to undertake for the pay-

OSHKOSH WATERWORKS CO. v. OSHKOSH.

443

Opimon of the Court.

ment of the costs, in like event, of a trial in a distant county,
greatly increased by the travel of witnesses and the costs of
subpoenaing them. A similar ruling in -Myres v. Parker, 6
Ohio St. 50,-504, sustains the conclusion at which we have ar-

rived, that the bond under consideration is not a substantial
'rinkwzne
compliance with the statute." The ruling in the
case was reaffirmed in Oshkosh Water Works Co. v City of Oshkosh, 106 Wisconsin, 85, and in other cases.
In .Masonv. Ashland, 98 Wisconsin, 540-541, it was held

that, under the charter of the city of Ashland, the right of appeal from the disallowance of a claim by the common council
was perfect at the expiration of sixty days from the filing of
the claim with its clerk, and that the claimant "was obliged to
exercise it within the twenty days allowed by statute, or be forever barred from thereafter prosecuting his claim m any court"
-citing Femrng v. Aoylton, 55 Wisconsin, 90, and Zok v
Ashland, 83 Wisconsin, 361.
In Teyord v City of Ashland, 100 Wisconsin, 238, it was
adjudged that as the objection that the appeal was not taken
within twenty days after the adverse action of the council goes
to the jurisdiction of the subject matter, it may be raised for
the first time in the appellate court.
In Seegar v City of AsMand, 101 Wisconsin, 515, it was held
that under a provision in a city charter to the effect that in case
any person presented his claim or demand against the city,
which the common council disallowed in whole or in part, the
council "shall not again consider or allow such claim," and its
failure to act upon a claim within sixty days after being presented was equivalent to a disallowance-the right to appeal
therefrom expiring in twenty days after such disallowance.
Accepting these decisions as our guide in determining the
meaning and effect of the provisions in the revised charter of
Oshkosh, we perceive no reason for holding that the change in
remedies made by that charter impair, in the constitutional
sense, the obligation of the contract of 1883 between the Watervorks Company and the city
The requirement that a claim or demand against the city
should be presented to the common council and be disallowed,

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opimnon of the Court.

in whole or in part, before the city can be subjected to suit upon
it, is a reasonable regulation for the protection of the city
against the cost of unnecessary litigation. it does not affect
the substance of the creditor's right, without being unreasonably delayed, to institute an action against the city It only
stays his hand until the city has full opportunity to look into
his claim before paying or refusing to pay it. Nor does the
above regulation unduly obstruct the creditor, for, by it the
city is in effect allowed only sixty days for such examination,
and. the creditor is protected against a vexatious or indefinite
delay by the provision that the failure of the council, for sixty
days, to pass upon the claim shall be deemed a disallowance
thereof, and the creditor may at once appeal to the Circuit
Court of the county In that court the necessary issues can be
framed, under the direction of the court, and according to the
usual. modes of pleading, and the rights of the parties judicially
ascertained and enforced.
Equally without merit is-the objection to that clause of the
revised charter making the disallowance of a claim, in whole
or in part, by the council, final and conclusive, unless an appeal
be taken to the Circuit Court of the county within a prescribed
time. We take it that the purpose of that provision was to protect the public against the dangers attending persistent and frequent applications to the common council after it had once acted
and to compel claimants to proceed with promptness while all
the facts connected with their demands were fresh in the minds
of the members of the council. This is a wholesome regulation, of which no creditor can justly complain, since the charter
enables hin, without serious delay, after the disallowance of
his claim, to invoke the jurisdiction of a court of general jurisdiction for the enforcement of such claim.
But it is earnestly insisted by the Waterworks Company that
the provision requiring an appeal from the disallowance of a
claim to be perfected within twenty days thereafter is so unreasonable, in the matter of time, as, by its necessary operation,
to impair the obligation of its contracts with the city We
cannot assent to this view The time within .which the creditor must perfect his appeal is undoubtedly short. But it is

OSHKOSH WATERWORKS CO. v. OSHKOSH.
Opimon of the Court.

sufficient for the purpose of enabling him to get his case, with
reasonable dispatch, into the Circuit Court and.have its judgment as to his clain against the city, with the same right that
other litigants have to take the case t& the hilhest court of the
State. Here again is disclosed the purpose of the Legislature
to bring to a speedy conclusion all disputes as to claims against
the city It surely was competent for the Legislature to effect
such an object, and it cannot -be said, as matter of law,, that a
provision requiring the creditor within twenty days after the
disallowance of his claim to serve notice of appeal on the city
clerk materially affects or obstructs the presentation of his
claim to the proper Circuit Court.
Objection is also made to the requirement m the new charter that the appeal bond shall be approved by both the city
attorney and comptroller. In support of that objection it is
said that one or the other or both of those officers might be
absent from the city at the time the bond is tendered by the
creditor, also, that one or both of them msght object to the
bond when he ought to accept it as sufficient. But these contingencies may never arise. They certainly have not arisen in
respect of the claim of the Waterworks Company, for it is not
alleged that the company ever presented its claim to the common council for allowance, and consequently had no occasion
to tender the city attorney and comptroller an appeal bond.
Besides, it is not at all clear that the revised charter requires,
as a condition of the right to appeal, that a bond be executed
by the creditor within twenty days after the disallowance of
his claim by the common council. It does expressly require
that the notice of appeal shall be served within that time on
the clerk of the city, but no such absolute requirement is made
as to the time within which the appeal bond must be executed.
It may be that a construction that would defeat the creditor's
appeal, because of the absence of the city attorney and comp'troller, or either of them, at the time a bond is tendered for
their approval, or a refusal to approve a bond that was sufficient, would make the revised charter, in its application to
such a case, repugnant to the contract clause of the Constitution. But no such case is now presented, and no such question

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

as that suggested need be now decided. It should not be assumed that the right of appeal will be lost where the creditor
has done all that was required in order to perfect his appeal.
As the Waterworks Company does not allege that it presented
its claim to the common council for allowance, it :s not in a
position to ask a judicial determination of a questionl hat cannot arise in this case.
Another objection remains to be noticed. It is founded on
the decision in .Dnkwme v City-of Eau Claire,83 Wisconsin,
428, above cited, in which it was held that the appeal bond
provided in the charter of Eau Claire must relate to costs as
adjudged by the Circuit Court, and not by the Circuit Court of
any named county We have seen what were the reasons that
governed the Supreme Court of Wisconsin in so interpreting a
provision similar to the one here in question in the revised
charter of the city of Oshkosh. If that interpretation was, as
suggested, too technical it would not follow that the charter
thus construed would impair the obligation of contracts. It
would be extraordinary if this court should hold the new remedies and modes of procedure provided by the revised charter
to be illegal because of the possibility that a creditor might, by
mistake or carelessness, execute a bond not conditioned, as required by that charter, for the payment of the costs adjudged
by the Circuit Court, generally, but by a named Circuit Court.
As to the contention that the obligation of the contract of
August 31, 1891, was nnpaired by the revised charter, it is sufficient to say that that charter went into operation MSiarch 23,
1891. The contract of 1891 was a new contract, independent
of that of 1883, and the Waterworks Company could not therefore say that its obligation was impaired by a statute in force
at the time the contract was made. The contract clause of the
Constitution of the United States has reference only to a statute of a State enacted after the making of the contract whose
obligation is alleged to have been impaired. Lehzgh Water Co.
v Easton, 121 U S. 388, 391, Psnney v Nelson, 183 U. S. 144,
147, New, Orleans "Waterwowks Co. v Louts2ana,185 U S. 336,
351. If, however, the agreement of 1891 had such connection
with that of 1883 that they may be regarded as one agreement,

PACIFIC WHALING CO. v. UNITED STATES.

447

Statement of the Case.

then what has been said as to the application of the revised
charter to the contract of 1883 applies, in all respects, to that
of 1891. The obligation of neither contract was Impaired by
the charter of 1891.
We have noticed all the points that require consideration, and
adjudge, therefore, that the changes made by the revised charter
of Oshkosh in respect of remedies for the enforcement of claims
against that city provided for its creditors a substantial and
adequate remedy, and therefore did pot impair the obligation
of contracts with that municipal corporation.
The .judgment of the Supreme Court of Wisconsin must be
Affirmed.

PACIFIC STEAM WHALING COMPANY v. UNITED
STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOE THE
DISTRICT OF ALASKA.
No. 26. Argued December 8, 1902.-Decided January 5, 903.

Where an applicant files with the District Court of Alaska a petition for a
license for vessels and salmon canneries under section 460 of the act of
1899 providing a criminal code for Alaska, 30 Stat. 1253, 1336, and with it
a protest against being required to take out or pay for such license on
various grounds stated therein, to which petition and protest the clerk
of the District Court is not made a party-although the papers -may have
been served on the district attorney-and the District Court thereafter
makes an order granting the license, stating therein that so far as the
protestant seeks relief against the payment of the licenses "the.same is
over'uled, denied and ignored," an appeal to this court will not lie as
there is no action, suit, or case, within the constitutional provision (Article III, section 2) in which was entered a final judgment or decree such
as entitled the petitioner to appeal to tins court.
SECTION

460 of the act of March 3, 1899, 30 Stat. 1253, 1336)

entitled "An act to define and punish crimes in the District of
Alaska and to provide a code of criminal procedure for said
district," reads

