CORBUS z. GOLD MINING CO.
Statement of the Case.

CORBUS v. ALASKA

TREADWELL GOLD MINING
COMPANY

APPEAL FROMt THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF ALASKA.
No. 10. Argued December 8, 1902.-Decided January 5, 1903.
Before a court of equity will in any way help a party to thwart the intent
of Congress, as expressed in a statute, it should affirmatively and clearly
appear that there is an absolute necessity for its interference in order to
prevent irreparable injury.
If the party primarily and directly charged with a tax is unable to make a
case for the interference of a court of equity no one subordinately and
indirectly affected by the tax should be given relief unless he shows not
merely irreparable injury to the tax debtor as well as to himself, but
also that he has taken every essential preliminary step to justify his
claim of a right to act in behalf of such tax debtor.
The fact that this court entertained the bill of equity in Pollock v. Farmers'
Loan & Trust Co., 157 U. S. 429, does not determine to what extent a court
of equity will permit a stockholder to maintain a suit nominally against
the corporation, but really for its benefit; and where a bill is filed by a
stockholder to enjoin the officers of a corporation from paying a tax as
required by a statute of the United States, this court will examine the
'bill in its entirety'and determine whether, under all the circumstances,
the plaintiff has made such a showing of wrong on the part of the corporation as will justify the suit, and if it appears that the suit is collusive
or that the plaintiff has not done everything which ought to have been
done to secure action by the corporation and its directors, and justify
under the assumption of a controversy between himself and the corporation his prosecution of a litigation for its benefit, the bill will be dismissed.

TiIS, like the preceding cases, was brought to prevent the
payment of an Alaskan license tax. The method pursued was,
however, different. It is a suit in equity brought by a stockholder against a corporation-the stockholder and the corporation being the sole parties plaintiff and defendant-to restrain
it frompaying the tax. Notice was given to the United States
district attorney of the pendency of the suit, who appeared as
ammous curmu, and, disclaiming any intention of, in any manner,
representing or binding the United States, denied the jurisdic-

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Statement of the Case.

tion of the court, its right to enjoin the defendant from paying
the license, and argued in favor of the constitutionality of the
law
The bill alleged that the defendant was incorporated under
the laws of the State of Minnesota, and engaged in ining and
milling ore in the District of Alaska, with an office and manager in the district, that "the general control of the affairs of
said company is entrusted to a board of directors who reside in
San Francisco, State of California, and are non-residents of the
District of Alaska, that the complete control and management
of the affairs of said company m Alaska is under the supervision and control of its general superintendent and manager, J.
P Corbus."
It is further averred that the company by its general superintendent in Alaska is intending to pay the license tax which,
for the year beginning July 1, 1899, amounted, with the clerk's
fee, to the sum of $1875. After denying the legality of the
tax the bill proceeds
"Your orator further shows that this suit is not a collusive
one, brought to confer jurisdiction of the case upon this court,
of whlcji it would not otherwise have cognizance, that your
orator has not been able, because of the great distance at which
the directors of said company reside, to request them to refuse
to pay said tax and to apply for said license, but has made such
request of the officers or agents of said company controlling its
business in Alaska, but they have failed and refused not to
make such application and pay such tax, for the reason that,
though they doubt the constitutionality of said law, the pains
and penalties imposed by said act for the omission so to do are
so severe that said company and its said officers and agents
fear, and have reason to fear, the great loss and injury in defending prosecution that might be brought against it for the
failure to comply with said law, that they deem it better to
submit to the illegal tax than to incur the consequences of the
failure to comply with it, that your orator is advised that there
is no procedure provided by law whereby said company could
test the validity of said law and the constitutionality of said tax
without incurring the pains and penalties therem provided for

CORBUS i

GOLD MINING CO.

Statement of the Case.

the violation thereof, inasmuch as the said act requires the voluntary payment of the tax imposed under a penalty of heavy
forfeiture and fines for the failure to make such voluntary payment; that the said company, in view of the foregoing, has refused and still refuses and intends omitting to comply with
complainant's demand to refuse to pay said tax, and has resolved and determined aifd intends to comply with all and
singular the provisions of said chapter 44 of said act of Congress, and to pay said tax upon its stamps -and upon its said
mercantile establishment, amounting to the said sum of eighteen hundred and seventy-five dollars for the said year, and to
continue the payment of a like or greater sum for each year
hereafter.
"Your orator further shows that if said company and its
officers, as they have proposed and declared their retention to
do, shall pay said tax the assets of the said company will be
thereby dimnuished and lessened, as well as the dividends to be
declared upon the stock thereof, and the value of the shares of
said company, including the shares owned by your orator and
all others'in whose behalf this suit is brought, and your orator
further shows that this involves more than the sum of five
thousand dollars., that unless the company should comply with
said act or this court grant the relief hereia prayed for the
said company would be exposed to a multiplicity of suits and
prosecutions for the violation of said act, and would be put to
great expense and suffer irreparable injury -in defending said
suits and avoiding the fines and forfeitures provided by the said
act, and its assets and the value of its shares would be thereby
greatly lessened, to the great and irreparable injury and damage to your orator and other shareholders in said company "
A demurrer to the bill was sustained and a decree entered
dismissing the suit. A single opinion was filed by the district
judge in disposing of all of these tax cases. In that opinion,
and with special reference to the present case, he said
"In the cases at bar the district attorney, so far as he had
the right to do so, the government not being a party to the
suits, raised not only the question of the jurisdiction of the court
because the plaintiffs had a plain, speedy, and adequate remedy

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Counsel for Parties.

at law, but insisted that the suits were of. a friendly nature,
collusive in character, and brought for the sole purpose of conferring jurisdiction upon the court, to the end that the defendants
might escape paying the license fee imposed by law, and when
all the facts are taken together, as disclosed by the record, some
color is lent to the latter contention. Take the case of Corbu8
v The Treadwell Co:, the bill was filed July 17, the subpoena
served July 19, commanding the defendant to answer the bill
within twenty days. No appearance was made by defendant,
however, and no pleading filed until November 15, nearly four
months after the filing of the bill, and not until about the time
the matter was called up for hearing, when a demurrer was interposed. Counsel for defendant did not contend for his demurrer, made no argument, and filed no brief in support of the
same, and in the very nature of the case the interests of the
plaintiff and defendant are identical. Then, if the object and
purpose of the suit is solely to test the constitutionality of the
law without first paying into the United States Treasury the
amount of the license tax, and there can be no other object, and
if the court will sustain the plaintiff and enjoin the defendant
as prayed, how is the private citizen to avail himself of a similar remedy 2 Who shall enjoin him and save him from paying
his tax until the constitutionality of the law is determined 2
And if he cannot avail himself of this manner of suit, why
should corporations or copartnerships be permitted to do so 2
Why should not corporations and individuals have and be permitted to exercise identically the same legal rights and remedies
under the law 2 "
From the decree of dismissal the plaintiff appealed to this
court.
Mr S.X.b tockslager for. appellant. AXr W TV Dudley,
Jfr L. T 2Jichener, M rJ F .Malony, .2r G .Cobb, Mr.
George (1.Heard, .JMr John R. Wlrynne and .Mr John G Hesd
were on the briefs.
M-2- Solicitor General Rwhar sfor the United States. Ar
.Asnstamnt Attorney General Beck was with him on the brief.

CORBUS v. GOLD MINING CO.
Opinion of the Court.

MR.JUsOTiC-BRswER, after making the foregoing statement,
delivered the opinion of the court.

The thought suggested by the quotation from the opinion of
the district .judgeimpresses us forcibly Evidently the plaintiff
patterned his proceeding upon Pollock v Farmers' Loan &
Trust Co., 157 U. S. 429. But that case does not determine
to what extent a court of equity will permit a stockholder to
maintain a suit nominally against the corporation but really
for its benefit. Hawes v Oakland, 104- U. S. 450, is pertinent
in this direction. In that case a citizen of N~ew York, a stockholder in the Contra Costa Waterworks Company, a California
corporation, filed his bill in the Circuit Court of the United
States for the District of California against the city of Oakland, the waterworks company and its directors. The gravamen of the bill was that the city claimed and received from
the company without compensation a supply of water for all
municipal purposes whatever, that the claim had no legal
foundation, and that such supply without compensation resulted in a diminution of the dividends which should come to
the plaintiff and other stockholders, and a decrease in the value
of their stock. The bill further alleged that the plaintiff applied to the airectors to desist from such illegal practice and
take immediate proceedings to prevent the city from. taking
water from the waterworks without compensation, but that
they declined to do so and threatened to continue to furnish
water to the city of Oakland free of charge for all municipal
purposes, as had theretofore been done. To this bill the company and its directors failed to make answer or other defence.
The city of Oakland filed a demurrer, which was sustained
and the bill dismissed, and from such decree the case was appealed to this court. The opinion, which is too long to quote
in full, opens with these observations (pp. 452, 453)
"Since the decision of this court in Dodge v Woolsey, IS
How 331, the principles of which have received more than
once the approval of this court, the frequency with which the
most ordinary and usual chancery remedies are sought in the
Federal courts by a single stockholder of a corporation who

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

possesses the requisite citizenship, in cases where the corporation whose rights are- , to be enforced cannot sue in those
courts, seems to justify a consideration of the grounds on which
that case was decided, and of the just limitations of the exer-

else of those principles.
"This practice has grown until the corporations created by
the laws of the States bring a large part of their controversies

with their neighbors and fellow citizens into the courts of the
United States for adjudication, instead of resorting to the state
courts, which are their natural, their lawful, and their appropriate forum. It is not difficult to see how this has come to
pass. A corporation having such a controversy, which it is foreseen must end in litigation, and preferring for any reason whatever that this litigation shall take place in a Federal court, in
which it can neither sue its real antagonist nor be sued by it,
has recourse to a holder of one of its shares, who is a citizen of
another State. This stockholder is called into consultation and
is told that his corporation has rights which the directbrs refuse
to enforce or to protect. He instantly demands of them to do
their duty in this regard, which of course they fail or refuse to
do, and thereupon he discovers that he has two causes of action
entitling him to equitable relief m a court of chancery, namely,
one against his own company of which he is a corporator, for
refusing to do what he has requested them to do, and the other
against the party which contests the matter in controversy
with that corporation. These two causes of action he combines in an equity suit in the Circuit Court of the United States,
because he is a citizen of a different State, though the real parties to the controversy could have no standing in that court.
If no non-resident stockholder exists, a transfer of a few shares
is made to some citizen of another State, who then brings the
suit. The real defendant in this action may be quite as willing
to have the case tried' in the Federal court as the corporation
and its stockholder. If so, he makes no objection, and the case
proceeds to a hearing. Or he may file his answer denying the
special grounds set up in the bill as a reason for the stockholder's interference, at the same time that he answers to the
merits. In either event the whole case is prepared for hearing

CORBUS v. GOLD MINING CO.
Opinion of the Court.

on the merits, the right of the stockholder to a standing in
equity receives but little attention, and the overburdened courts
of the United States have this additional important litigation
imposed upon them by a simulated and conventional arrangement, unauthorized by the facts of the case or by the sound principles of equity jurisdiction."
After a full discussion, with the citation of many authorities, the conclusion is summed up in these words (pp. 460,461)
" We understand that doctrine to be that to enable a stockholder in a corporation to sustain in a court of equity in his
own name, a suit founded on a right of action existing in the
corporation itself, and in winch the corporation itself is the
appropriate plaintiff, there must .exist as the foundation of the
suit"1Some action or threatened action of the managing board of
directors or trustees of the corporation which is beyond the authority conferred on them by their charter or other source of
organization,
"Or such a fraudulent transaction completed or contemplated
by the acting managers, in connection with some other party,
or among themselves, or with other shareholders as will result
in serious injury to the corporation, or to the interests of the
other shareholders;
"Or where the board of directors, or a majority of them, are
acting for their own interest, in a manner destructive of the
corporation itself, or of the rights of the other shareholders,
"Or where the majority of the hareholders themselves are
oppressively and illegally pursuing a course in the name of the
corporation, which is in violation of the rights of the other
shareholders, and which can only be restrained by the aid of
a court of equity
"Possibly other cases may arise in which, to prevent irremediable injury, or a total failure of justice, the court w6uld be
justified in exercising its powers; but the foregoing may be regarded as an outline of the principles which govern this class of
cases.
"But, in addition to the existence of grievances which call
for this kind of relief, -it is equally important that before the

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

shareholder is permitted m his own name to institute and conduct a litigation which usually belongs to the corporation, he
should show to the satisfaction of the court that he has ex-

hausted all the means within his reach to obtain, within the
corporation itself, the redress of his grievances, or action m conformity to his wishes. He must make an earnest, not a simulated effort, with the managing body of the corporation, to induce
remedial action on their part, and this must be made apparent
to the court. If time permits or has permitted, he must show, if
he fails with the directors, that he has made an honest effort to
obtain action by the stockholders as a body, in the matter of
which he complains. And he must show a case, if this is not
done, where it could not be done, or it was not reasonable to
require it." See also Detroit v. Dean, 106 U. S. 537-54:2,
Qmuiney v Steel, 120 U S. 241.
While this case is unlike that in that it does not attempt to
transfer from a state to a Federal court a controversy which
really belongs in the former-there being none other than Federal courts in the Territory-yet the principle is the same, for
it is an effort to secure for the benefit of the corporation an injunction which it could not itself obtain and which no individual similarly situated can obtain.
Immediately after announcing the decision in Hawes v. Oakland, supra, this court promulgated an additional equity rule
(Rule 94)
"Every bill brought by one or more stockholders in a corporation, against the corporation and other parties, founded on
rights which may properly be asserted by the corporation, must
be verified by oath, and must contain an allegation that the
plaintiff was a shareholder at the time of the transaction of
which he complains, or that his share had devolved on him since
by operation of law, and that the suit is not a collusive one
to confer on a court of the United States jurisdiction of a case
of which it would not otherwise have cognizance. It must also
set forth with particularity the efforts of the plaintiff to secure
such action as he desires on the part of the managing directors
or trustees, and, if necessary, of the shareholders, and the causes
of his failure to obtain such action."

CORBUS v. GOLD MINING CO.
Opimon of the Court.

It must not be understood that a mere technical compliance
with the foregoing rule is sufficient and precludes all inquiry
as to the right of the stockholder to maintain a bill against the
corporation. This court will examine the bill in its entirety
and determine whether, under all the circumstances, the plaintiff has made such a showing of wrong on the part of the corporation or its officers and injury to himself as will justify the
suit. The directors represent all the stockholders and are presumed to act honestly and according to their best judgment for
the interests of all. Their judgment as to any matter lawfully
confided to their discretion may not lightly be challenged by
any stockholder or at his instance submitted for review to a
court of equity The directors may sometimes properly waive
a legal right vested inthe'corporation in the belief that its best
interests will be promoted by not insisting on such right. They
may regard the expense of enforcing the right or the furtherance of the general business of the corporation in determining
whether to waive or insist upon the right. And a court of
equity may not be called upon at the appeal of any single stockholder to compel the directors or the corporation to enforce
every right which it may possess, irrespective of other considerations. It is not a trifling thing for a stockholder to attempt
to coerce the directors of a corporation to an act which their
judgment does not approve, or to substitute his judgment for
theirs. As said in Dodge v WooZey, 18 How 344 "The circumstances of each case must determine the jurisdiction of a
court of equity to give the relief sought."
It appears from the bill that the capital stock of the corporation is divided into 200,000 shares of the par value of $25
each, of which the plaintiff is the owner of 100 shares, that the
total annual tax, including fees , amounts to $1875, which results in a charge upon the plaintiff's interest of less than one
dollar a year. This would scarcely be a case of "1irremediable
injury or a total failure of justice," as indicated in next to 'the
last paragraph of the quotation from the opinion of this court
in Hawea v Oakland. Indeed, the tax upon the company of
$3 a stamp for each of the 540 stamps used by it in the crushing and reduction of ore does not appear to be such as threat-

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opmion of the Court.

ens ruin to the company It does not appear from the bill that
any other stockholder shares with the plaintiff his belief in the
illegality of the tax or objects to its payment by the corporation, although of course it may be assumed that every person is
willing to be relieved from the payment of a tax if other parties
will bring about that relief without any trouble to himself.
Again, as suggested by the district judge m his opinion, the
plaintiff could not maintain an injunction suit to restrain a similar tax upon himself and why should he be permitted to secure
a relief to the corporation (of which he is a minor stockholder)
which he could not secure for himself individually ? Are corporations the favored parties in respect to the enforcement of
taxes2 And when the assistance of a court of equity is invoked the purpose of the suit and the object which is sought to
be accomplished are frequently matters which may properly be
considered. Niot ohly is it the general rule that equity will
not restrain the collection of a tax on the mere ground of its
illegality, but also, as appears by its legislation, Congress has
attempted to enforce that rule and to require payment of a tax
by the party charged therewith before inquiry as to its validity
will be permitted. See Paofr Steam ThaZing Company v.
United ,tate,. ante, p. 447. Now before a court of equity
will in any way help a party to thwart this intent of Congress,
it should affirmatively and clearly appear that there is an abslute necessity for its interference in order to prevent irreparable injury No considerations of mere convenience are sufficient. And if the party primarily and directly charged with
a tax is unable to make a case for the interference of a court of
equity, no one subordinately and indirectly affected by the tax
should be given relief unless he shows not merely irreparable
injury to the tax debtor as well as to himself, but also that he
has taken every essential preliminary step to justify his claim
of a right to act in behalf of such tax debtor. We have seen
how small the burden of tns tax is upon the plaintiff and how
comparatively light it is upon the cbrporation-ho-M far short
it comes of anything like irretrievable. ruin. It is clearly an
attempt to thwart in behaf of this corporation the obvious
purpose of Congress, that a tax mrast be paid before its validity

CORBUS v. GOLD MINING CO.
Opimon of the Court.

is challenged. Under those circumstances a court of equity
should scrutinize with the utmost care the conduct of the plaintiff
and see that he has done everything which oight to have been
done to secure action by the corporation and its directors, and
justify under the assumption of a controversy between himself
and the corporation his pr6secution of a litigation ff-r its benefit.
It appears affirmatively that no demand has been made on
the directors to protect the corporation against this alleged
illegal tax. The only demand shown is that upon the managing agent of the corporation in charge of the business in Alaska,and the excuse is that the directors (livingin San Francisco) are
too far away to be reached by notice. The act went into effect
March 3, 1899, and thisbill was filed July 17, 1899. The rule
requires that the plaintiff must set forth with particularity the
efforts made by him to secure action by the directors. It does
not appear that he made any effort to secure such action, but
he relies simply on the distance of the directors from the place
where he resides and in which the court is held as an excuse
for not applying to them. We are of opinion that the excuse
is not sufficient, He should at least have shown some effort.
If he had made an effort and obtained no satisfactory result
either by reason of the distance of the directors or by their
dilatoriness or unwillingness to act, a different case would have
been presented, but to do nothing is not sufficient. For aught
that the bill discloses he may have been in San Francisco from
the time of the passage of the act until ho left to come to Alaska
for the purpose of bringing this suit. The district judge, m his
opinion, .said that the facts disclosed by the record lend color
to the contention that the suit was collusive. In addition to
the matters pointed out by him it may also be stated that since
the case was'brought to this court the company has not appeared
by counsel in either brief or argument.
Putting all these things together we are of opinion that the
action of the-District Court in dismissinz the suit was right,
and it is
Afflrmed.
The CHOF JusTicE took no part in the decision of this case.
VoL. o(LXXXVI-30

