ROBINSON & CO. v. BELT.
Syllabus.

been terminated, according to its express provisions, by the
land ceasing to be used as a burial ground, and the dissolution
and extinction of the society for whose benefit the grant was
made, there arises, by a familiar principle of equity jurisprudence, a resulting trust'to the grantor and his heirs, whether
his conveyance was by way of gift, or for valuable consideration."
The titles held by the trustees in this- case were held for
the benefit and use of the society in the maintenance of its
principles. When the purposes of the trusts failed the propertv reverted, not because of special .provision to that effect,
but because that was the result of the termination of the
trusts.
Complainants, or some of them, are the hems and next of kin
of members who signed the articles of 1836 and 1847, and who
died in .fellowship. The service of one of these families is said
to aggregate three hundred years of unrequited toil. They are
entitled to invoke the aid of the court in the winding up of this
concern, and these decrees ought to be reversed.
I am authorized to state that MR.

JUSTIcE

BREwER concurs

in this dissent.

ROBINSON & CO. v. BELT.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE EIGHTH CIRCUIT.
No.46.

-Argued M1ay 2, 1902.-Decided October 27, 2902.

The question whether a general assignmentfor the benefit of creditors
is rendered invalid by reason of a provision that the "preferred
creditors shall accept their dividend in full satisfaction and discharge of their respective claims" is one determinable by the local
law of the urisdiction from which the question arises.

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Statement of the Case.

Under the Act of Congress of May 2, 1890, the laws of Arkansas
respecting assignments for the benefit of creditors, as well as the
statute of frauds, are extended and put in force in the Indian
Trerritory. In adopting these laws the courts of the Indian Territory are bound to respect the decisions of the Supreme Court of
Arkansas interpreting them.
Under the laws of Arkansas, thus made applicable to the Indian
Territory, a stipulation for a release in a general assignment,
which is made only as a condition of preference, does not invalidate
the instrument.
Other objections were made in the assignments of error, but as they
did not appear tb have been raised in either of the courts below,
it was held that they could not be raised in this court.
While it is the duty of this court to review the action of subordinate
courts, justice to those courts requires that their alleged errors
shall be called directly to their attention, and that their action
shall not be reversed for errors which counsel in this court have
first evolved from the record.
Tnis was a writ of error to a judgment of the Circuit Court
of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit affirming a judgment of the
Court of Appeals of the Indian Territory, which latter court
affirmed the judgment of the United States court for the Northern District of such Territory, sustaining an interplea by one
King to recover the value of certain property attached and sold
by Robinson & Co., which had 'Seen conveyed to King as
assignee by a deed of assignment made by his co-defendant
Belt.
The facts of the case are substantially as follows One John
C. Belt, a resident of Arkansas, who was engaged in business
in the Indian Territory, on December 29, 1891, made an assignment for the benefit of his creditors to King as assignee.
On the 'following day "J li. kobinson & Co.," plaintiffs
in error, brought suit against Belt in the United States court
in that Territory, sued out an attachment and levied upon
the property assigned. Belt failed to plead, and judgment
by default was taken against him, and the attachment sustained.
On May 31, 1892, defendant in error King filed an interplea,

ROBINSON & CO. v. BELT.
Counsel for Parties.

setting out his deed of assignment, and claiming the property
as his, by virtue of such deed. After so doing, he entered into
a stipulation with other attaching creditors, of whom there
were a large number, whereby it was agreed that tis interplea
should be considered as filed in every suit, and virtually that
the result of the mterpleader proceedings in the suit of J M.
Robinson & Co. should control all other suits. The property
was, after its attachment, sold under order of court, pursuant
to statutes governing such proceedings, and at such sale realized
the sum of $7900.
A demurrer to the interplea was filed and sustained by the
court, from which order King sued out a writ of error from the
United States Court of Appeals. He gave no supersedeas bond,
however, and the fund was by order of the court distributed
.ro rata to the attaching creditors according to their priorities.
The Court of Appeals reversed the judgment on the demurrer,
63 Fed. Rep. 90, and on September 19, 1895, Robinson & Co.
filed their answer to the interplea, denying that King was
owner by virtue of the deed of assignment, and alleged the
same to be fraudulent and void, denied that King filed a complete inventory, denied that certain personal property described
in the deed of assignment was the property of the wife of Belt,
and admitted that the property described in the deed was seized
under the attachment.
The trial on the interplea was had before a jury and resulted
in a verdict in favor of the interpleader, wliich found the attached property to be the property of King as assignee. A
3ndgment was thereupon entered in his favor, which was subsequently affirmed, first, by the Court of Appeals for the Indian
Territory, and then by the Circuit -Court of Appeals for the
Eighth Circuit. 100 Fed. Rep. 718. Whereupon a writ of error
was sued out by Robinson & Co. from this court:
.Afr Dasd GolZd.mith for plaintiffs in error.
No appearance for defendants in error.
MR. JUSTiCE Bnowx, after making the foregoing statement,
delivered the opinion of the court.

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

This is a contest between certain attaching creditors of John
C. Belt, and one King, his voluntary assignee for the benefit of
creditors.
The record is m an unsatisfactory condition. It isimpossible
to tell whether the plaintiffs are a corporation or a partnership,
and if the latter, who constitute the firm, or against what individuals the judgment of the court was rendered. Although
the only right of the plaintiffs to contest the assignment of
Belt to King arises from the levy of an attachment upon the assigned property, neither the writ of attachment nor the return
of the marshal of the levy thereunder appears in the record or
testimony Nor does the record contain a copy of the complaint in which these proceedings were probably averred. The
only pleadings before us are the interplea of King, filed in the
action, (which appears to have been brought against Belt alone,)
setting up the assignment, and the answer of the plaintiffs
thereto, denying the ownership of King and averring the fraudulent character of the assignment. But as the interplea of
King alleges that on December 31, 1891, and just after he had
completed an inventory of the property so assigned, plaintiffs
caused a writ of attachment to be levied upon a portion of the
property, we may treat this as a sufficient admission of plaintiffs' title to justify us in passing upon the question of the validity of the assignment upon which the case largely depends.
1. This assignment is attacked by the plaintiffs chiefly upon
the ground that it contains a provision that the preferred creditors shall accept their dividends "in full satisfaction and discharge of their respective claims," "and execute and deliver to
said John C. Belt a legal release therefor." This provision has
been the subject of discussion in England and in most of the
States, and in a large number of cases has been held to avoid
the assignment, upon the ground that the debtor has no right
to compel his creditors to accept his terms or lose their preference. Ii England a clause of a somewhat similar nature was
held to be void under the statute of Elizabeth as an attempt to
hinder, delay or defeat creditors, Spencer v STater, L. R. 4 Q.
B..D. 13, though the applicability of that case tb this particular
provision admits of some doubt.

ROBINSON & CO. v. BELT.
Opinion of the Court.

The fact that it enables the debtor to extort a settlement by
playing upon the fears or apprehensions of his creditors is
thought by the courts of many of the States to be sufficient to
justify them in setting aside the assignment, and where such
provision has been sustained it has usually been in deference to
authority rather than upon conviction of its propriety or wisdom. The question was discussed at considerable length by
Mr. Justice Story in Ialsey v W]hitney, 4: Mason, -206, 227, and
the validity of the clause sustained largely in deference to the
case of Zing v. Watson, 3 Price, 6, where, as he states, the very
exception was taken by counsel and the assignment held good
by the Court of Exchequer. Ring v Watson, however, has but
a remote bearing, and seems to have been tro tanto overruled
by the case of 8pencerv Slater,above cited. Mr. Justice Story
finally remarks that if the question were entirely new and many
estates had not passed upon the faith of such assignments, the
strong inclination of his mind would be against their validity
"As it is," said he, "I yield without reluctance to what seems
the tone of authority in favor of them." Somewhat similar
doubt -is expressed by Mr. Chief Justice Taney in White v
Minn; a memorandum of which is found in 8 Gill. 499. The
question was also incidentally considered by this court in Security Tru&t Co. v Dodd, 173 U. S. 621, 633, but the case went
off upon another polit.
This court has never directly passed upon the validity of this
provision, but wherever it has been called in question it has
been treated as determinable by the local law of the State from
which the question arose. Thus, in Brashearv West, 7 Pet.
608, the clause was upheld solely upon the .ground that the
courts of Pennsylvania had sustaaned its validity The assignment in that case was in trust to pay and discharge the debts
due from the assignor, first, to certain preferred creditors, and
afterward to creditors generally, provided that no creditor
should be entitled to receive a dividend, who should not within
ninety days execute a full and complete release of all claims
and demands upon the assignor. Mr. Chief. Justice Marshall,
after summarizing the arguments for and against the validity
of this provision, did not commit the court to the expression of

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

an opinion, but held that "the construction which the courts of
that State (Pennsylvama) have put on the Pennsylvania statute
of frauds must be received in the courts of the United States,"
and decided the case upon the authority of .ppncott v Barker,
2 Binney, 174, in which this question arose, and was decided
after an elaborate argument in favor of the deed. He also remarked that the question had been decided the same way in
Peapoznt v Graham,4 Wash. 232. In that case -r. Justice
Washington thought that an assignment in trust for the benefit
of such creditors as should release their debts was founded upon
a good and valuable consideration, and was valid, the only inquiry being whether it was bonaftde. The assignment was supported in favor of such of the creditors as executed a release of
their demands within sixty days after the date of the instrument, that being the time limit provided for such acceptance.
Neither in Lippzncott v Baker nor in Pearpont v Graham
were there any preferred creditors, but the assignments were in
trust for all the creditors who should within sixty days in one
case and four months in the other execute a release of their
demands. In several subsequent cases the rule laid down in
Brashearv Vest has been adopted, and the principle fully established that the construction and effect of a state statute,
regulating assignments for the benefit of creditors, is one upon
which the decisions of the highest courts of.the State are a controlling authority in the Federal courts. They are treated as
establishing a rule of property applicable within their several
jurisdictions. Sumner v,Hicks, 2 Black, 532, .1afrayv..McGehee, 107 U S.361, Petersv. Bazn, 133 U S. 670, 686, Ran,
do ph v Qusdnzck.Co., 135 U S.457, 6h'wago Unwzn Bank v
Kansas City Bank, 136 U S.223, 235, South Branch Lumber
Co. v Ott, 142 U S.622, 627.
The same rule has been held to be applicable to decisions of
state courts construing the statute of frauds. Allen v Yasey,
17 Wall. '351, Lloyd v .Fulton,91 U S.479, 485.
Whatever might be our own views with regard to the validity
of a release by creditors as a condition of preference under an
assignment, the question is one which, upon the authorities

ROBINSON & CO. v. BELT.
Opinion of the Court.

above cited, must be held to be determinable by the state law
as interpreted by the Supreme Court of such State.
While the case under consideration arose in the Indian Territory, the law applicable thereto is determined by the laws of
Arkansas, which were adopted and extended over the Indian
Territory by the act .of Congress apprdved May 2' 1890, 26
Stat. 94, sec. 31, which declares that certain general Laws of
Arkansas, "which are not locally inapplicable or in conflict with
this act or with any law of Congress, relating to the subjects
specially mentioned in this section, are hereby extended and
put in force in the Indian Territory," among which laws are
enumerated assignments for the benefit of creditors and the
statute of frauds. In adopting this law with respect to assignments, the courts of the Indian Territory are also bound to respect the decisions of the Supreme Court of Arkansas interpreting that law
In more than one case we have had occasron to hold that, if
a foreign statute be adopted in this country, the decisions of
foreign courts in the construction of such statute should be considered as incorporated into it. Thus in Pennock v Dzalogue,
2 Pet. 1, it was said by Mr. Justice Story (p. 18) "It is doubtless true, as has been suggested at the bar, that where English
statutes, such for instance, as the statute of, frauds and the
statute of limitations, have been adopted into our own legislation, the known and settled construction of thoe statules by
courts of law has been considered as silently incorporated into
the acts, or has been received with all the weight of authority."
In speaking of our patent act, which was largely taken from
the English statute of monopolies, he says (p.,20) " The words
of our statute are not identical with those of' tb statute of
James, but it can scarcely admit of doubt, that they must have
been within the contemplation of those by whom it was framed,
as well-as the construction which had been put upon them by
Lord Coke." In Cathcart v .Robinson, 5 Pet. 264, IMr. Chief
Justice Marshall said (p. 280) "By adqpting them (British
statutes) they become our own as entirely as if they had been
enacted by the legislature of the State. The received construction m England at the timethey are admitted to operate in

OCTOBER TERI, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

this country, indeed to the time of our separation from the
British Empire, may very properly be considered as. accompanying the statutes themselves, and fornung an integral part
of them. But however we may respect subsequent decisions,
and certainly they are entitled to great respect, we do not admit their absolute authority" See also .irkpatc1k v Gibson'8
Executors, 2 Brock. 388. The same rule has been applied in
the state courts in the construction of statutes adopted from
.other States. Commonwealth v Hartnett, 3 Gray, 450, Tyler
v. Tyler, 19 Illinois, 151, Bloodgood v Grasey, 31 Alabama,
575, Marqueze v. Caldwell, 48 Mississippi, 23, State v. Robey,
8 Nevada, 312, The Devonshi'e, 8 Sawyer, 209.
As the Arkansas statutes concerning assignments for the benefit of creditors and the statute of frauds were extended and
put in force in the Indian Territory by the act of Congress above
cited, it becomes material to consider the decisions of the Supreme Court of that State with reference to the validity of the
provision of an assignment exacting a release by creditors of all
their demands against the assignor as a condition of preferende.
The subject was first examined in Clayton v. Johnson, 36 Arkansas, 406, 424, in which an assignment for the benefit of creditors without preferences was held to be valid, notwithstanding
a proviso that no creditor provided for should participate in the
assets "unless he accepts the same in full of lns claim." The
question is most elaborately considered in that case, and a distinction taken between a conveyance of the whole and the conveyance of a part only of the debtor's property upon condition
of releasing the residue. The latter wag thought to be fraudulent and pernicious in its tendencies. In YoReynolds v Dedman,
47 Arkansas, 347, it was held that, although an assignor might
make preferences and exact releases from creditors who assented
to the assignment, if he reserved to himself, to the exclusion of
non-assenting creditors, the surplus that remained, the deed was
fraudulent upon its face. The difficulty with that assignment
was that, in case the creditors refused to execute the releases;
the residue, instead of being devoted to the payment of the assignor's creditors, was to revert ,to the assignor himself. This
case is wholly consistent with that of Claytowv Johnson. In the

ROBINSON &. CO. v. BELT.
Opmonof the Court.

subsequent case, howeyer, of Collier v Dav8, 47 Arkansas, 367,
Clayton v. Johnson was formally overruled, and an assignment
which provided that no creditor should participate unless he
should accept his share m full satisfaction of his claim, and
gave no direction for the application of the surplus after
satisfying assenting creditors, was held void upon its face.
-It may be noted that the personnel of the court had changed
since Clayton v Johnson was decided. In the subsequent
case of olf v Gray, 53 Arkansas, 75, decided a few weeks before the act of Congress of 1890, notwithstanding -the former
overruling of Clayton v Johnson in Collier v Davis, it is
said that its authority upon the stipulation for a release was
not inpaired, except as modified by the cases before cited. It
follows, said the court; that "the law is established here, in accord with much authority elsewhere, that a stipulation for a
release in a general assignment, which is made only as a condition of preference, does not invalidate the instrument." The
assignment in that case preferred one creditor and provided for
payment to all other creditors who should execute releases of
the residue of their debts. This case was followed by Zing v
Hargadine-fcKittricl Dry Good8 Co., 60 Arkansas, 1, where the
very assignment in question in this case was held to be valid,
notwithstanding the provision for a release by creditors as a
condition of preference. Without determining the validity of
such a provision at common law, we are of opinion that the
courts of the Indian Territory did not err in applying the settled construction of the law ol Arkansas to the assignment m
this case, and in holding the provision for a xelease of creditors
-to be valid.
2. Plaintiffs also seek to impeach the assignment upon the
ground that there was no evidence of 'its acceptance by any
of the creditors, or their assent thereto, and the posiion is
taken that, while the creditors may be presumed to accept an
assignment made for theii" benefit, such acceptance will not be
presumed, where the assignment is subject to the condition
that the creditors consent to a release and'discharge of their
claims against the estate. Error is also charged in the rendition of the judgment against persons who were not parties to
VOL. CLXXXVvI--4

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

the immediate case, but who had stipulated other cases into
this case for a like judgment, and also in the fact that a personal judgment rendered against the plaintiffs in error for the
value of the goods in controversy was not contemplated or
allowed by the statute under which the proceedings were had.
It is a sufficient answer to these objections to say that neither
of them appears to have been called to the attention of the
courts below They do not seem to have been raised at the
time the judgment was entered. It does not appear that any
assignments of error were filed in the Court of Appeals for the
Indian Territory, but the opinion states that plaintiffs relied
upon four objections to the assignment as showing upon its
face that it was fraudulent in law :No objection seems to
have been raised in that court to the form of the judgment.
In the assignments of error in the, United States Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit no such question is raised and none
alluded to in the opinion. Such objections could not be raised
for the first time in this court. Insurane Co. v .Xordeea, 22
How 111, 117, N5aftonl Bank v Comino'hwealtk, Q Wall.
353, TF-eeler v. Sedgwwck, 94 U. S. 1; Milson v . c2Vamee,
102- U S. 572, Edwards v Bllibtt, 21 Wall. 532, 0-ar7 v.
Frederwtks, 105 U. S. 4.
While it is the duty of this court to review the action of
subordinate courts, justice to those courts requires that their
alleged errors should be called directly to their attention, and
that their, action -should not be reversed upon questions which
the astuteness of counsel in this court has evolved from the
record. It is not the province of this court to retry these
cases de novo.
The judgment of the Court of Appeals is
Affirmed.
MR.

result.

JUSTIO

SHIRAS

and MR.

JusTI E WHIT,

concurred in the

