LAWDER v. STONE.
Statement of the Case.

LAWDER v. STONE, COLLECTOR.
OERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE FOURTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 82. Submitted November U,1902.-Decided December 1,1902.
Section 23 of the Customs Administrative Act of June 10, 1890, permitting
importers to abandon imported articles to the United States and be relieved from the payment of duties thereon, provided the portion so abandoned amounts to at least ten per cent of the total value or quaitity of
the invoice, does not apply to a cargo of fruit, a portion whereof (which
is less than ten per cent) decays on the voyage becoming utterly worthless, and necessarily dumped overboard under the sanitary~regulations of
the port after arrival of the vessel.
It would be unequitable and presumably not within the intention of Congress to assess duty upon articles which on a voyage to this country and
before arrival within the limits of a port of entry had become utterly
worthless by reason of casualty, decay or other natural causes, and which
the importer niight rightfully abandon and refuse to receive or enter for
consumption.
Articles thus circumstanced are not in truth within the category of goods,
wares and merchandise imported into the United States, within the
meaning of the tariff laws. (Marriott v. Brune, 9 Howard, 619, and
cases since decided on the authority thereof, followed.)
Article 1236 of the Customs Regulations of 1899, which is based upon sec.
2984 Rev. Stat. relates to merchandise which is destroyed or deteriorates
after actually having been entered and is not applicable where the merchandise, as in this case, was never actually entered because it was destroyed before it could be entered.
When Congress enacted the Customs Administrative Act of 1890, it must
be presumed to have possessed knowledge of the decisions of this court
and the consistent application made of the doctrine of those decisions by
the officials charged with the execution of the tariff laws, and in the
light of this fact it would require a clear expression by Congress of its
intention to adopt a contrary policy before a court would be justified in
holding that such was the purpose of the legislative branch of the government.

IN the months of May, June and July, 1897, the petitioners,
copartners, trading as S. M. Lawder & Sons, imported into the
port of Baltimore from the British West Indies several cargoes
of pineapples, invoiced as a specified number of dozens.
Upon the discharge of the cargo at Baltimore, after the pine-

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Counsel for Parties.

apples had been taken out of the vessels and their number estimated by the inspectors, thee remained in the holds a quantity
of what was described as "slush," consisting of decomposed
vegetable matter, mixed with bilge water and other dJnrns of
the cargo, some of it in a semi-liquid condition. This slush
was brought up from the holds in baskets and included by the
inspectors in their appraisement of the cargoes. The pineapples alleged to be contained in the slush were uncountable, and
their number was roughly estimated by the inspeotors by counting the pineapple tops and butts contained.in a.number of baskets of the slush, striking an average of those baskets, and then
calculating the number contained in the whole quantity of slush
according to that average. The material thus removed from
the vessels was commercially valueless, and-under the sanitary
regulations of the city of Baltimore was taken down the river
on a scow and dumped overboard. The number of pineapples
so estimated by the inspectors to be contained in the slush was
less than ten per cent of the total invoice, and the collector
treated the loss as a case of damage to the cargo within the
meaning -f section 23 of the customs administrative act of
June 10, 1890, and dssessed duty on the whole number of pine.apples estimated by the inspectors to be contained in the cargoes, including this quantity of slush.
The board of general appraisers sustained a protest of the
importers against the assessment of duties on the worthless and
indistinguishable mass referred to, and this decision was affirmed, on appeal of the collector, by the Circuit Court of the
United States for the District of Maryland. On a further appeal by the collector the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Fourth
Circuit reversed the decisions which had been made in favor of
the- importers and sustained the action of the collector. 101
Fed. Rep. -710. The case was then brought to this court by
writ of certiorari.
MX.

Efdward S. Hatch for petitioners.

ZiP Asszstant Attorney General Hoyt for respondent. MrM.
Janws A. Finch was with him on the brief.

LAWDER r STONE.
Opinion of the Court.

after making the foregoing statement,
of
the court.
delivered the opihlon
MR.JUSTICE WHITE,

As mentioned in the preceding statement, the collector of
customs for the district of Baltimore treated the loss arising
from the worthless condition of the portion of the cargo in question as a case of damage to the entire cargoes, within the meaning of section 23 of the customs administrative act of June 10,
1890. That section reads as follows
"That no allowance for damage to goods, wares, and merchandise imported into the United States shall hereafter be
made in the estimation and liquidation of duties thereon, but
the importer thereof may, within ten days after entry, abandon
to the United States all or any portion of goods, wares, and
merchandise included in any invoice, and be relieved from the
payment of the duties on the portion so abandoned P'ovzded,
That the portion so abandoned shall amount to ten per centum
or over of the total value or quantity of the invoice, and the
property so abandoned shall be sold by public auction, or otherwise disposed of for the account and credit of the United States
under such regulations as the- Secretary of the Treasury may
prescribe."
Do pineapples, which, on the voyage to this country, become
so decayed as to be utterly worthless, constitute, upon arrival
within the limits of a port of entry of the United States, goods,
wares and merchandise imported into the United States, within
the meaning of this expression. as employed in the section above
quoted 2 is the question for decision.
In Marriottv Brune, (1850) 9 How 619, it was held that,
under the eleventh section of the tariff act of July 30, 1846,
wlibre A portlon of a cargo of sugar and molasses was lost by
leakage on the voyage to this country, duty should be exacted
ohly upon the quantity of stugar and molasses which arrived
here and not upon the quantity which appeared to have been
shipped. In the course of the opinion the court said (p. 632)
"The general principle applicable to such a case would seem
to be, that revenue should be collected only from the quantity
or weight which arrives here. That is, what is smported--for

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Cour.

nothing is imported till it comes within the limits of a port.
See cases cited in Harmson v Vo8e, 9 How 372. And by express provision in all our revenue laws, duties are imposed only
on imports from foreign countries, or the importation from
them, or what is imported. 5 Stat. 548, 558. The very act of
1846 under consideration imposes the duty on what is ' imported
from foreign countries.' (p. 68.) The Constitution uses like
language- on this subject. (Article 1, sees. 8, 9.) Indeed, the
general definition of customs confirms this view, for, says McCulloch (vol: 1, p.. 548), 'C ustoms are duties charged upon commodities on their being imported into or exported from a
country'
"As to imports, they therefore can cover nothing which is
not actually brought into our limits. That is the whole amount
which is entered at the custom-house, that is all which goes
mt9 .the consumption of the country, that, and that alone, is
what comes in competition with our domestic manufactues,
and we are unable to see any principle of public policy which
requires the words of the act of Congress to be extended.so
as to embrace more.
"When the duty was specific on this article, being a certain
rate per pound, before the act of 1846, it could of course extend to no.larger number of pounds than was actually entered.
The change in the law has been merely in the rate and form of
the-duty, and not in the quantity on which it should be assessed.
"On looking a little further into the principles of the case, it
will be seen that a deduction must be made from the quantity
shipped abroad, whenever it does not all reach the United
States, or we shall in truth assess here what does not exist hejre.
The collection of revenue on an article not existing, and never
coming into the country, would be an anomaly, a mere fiction
of law, and is not -to be countenanced where not expressed in
acts of Congress, nor required to enforce just rights.
"It is also the quantity actually received here by which alone
the importer is benefited. It is all he can sell again to customers. It is all he can consume. It is all he can re~xport for
drawback. 1 Stat. 680-689, 4 Stat. 29."
After instancing certain cases provided for in a statute where

LAWDER v. STONE.
Opinion of the Court.

a fixed percentage was directed to be deducted for leakage and
breakage and a reduction in weight for tare and draff, the court
further said (p. 633)
"But beside these instances, in cases of an actual injury to an
article arriving here in a damaged state, a reduction from. the
value is permitted expressly on account of the diminished value.
1 Stat. 41, 166, 665.
"The former cases, referred to for illustration, rest on their
peculiar principles, and allowances in them are made by positive
provisions in acts of Congress, even though the quantity and
weight of the real article meant to be nnported should arrive
here. Because, knowing well that the whole is not likely to
arrive, and being able to fix, by a general average, the ordinary
loss in those cases with sufficient exactness, the matter has been
legislated on expressly
"Yet there are other cases of loss, from various causes, which
may be very uncertain in amount, for which no fixed and inflexible rate of allowance can be prescribed, and which must,
therefore,. in each instance, be left to be regulated by the general provisions for assessing duties, and the general principles
applicable to them, as before explained. Consequently, where
a portion of the shipment in cases like these does not arrive
here, and hence does not come under the possession and cognizance of the custom-house officers, it cannot, as heretofore shown,
be taxed on any ground of law or of truth and propriety, and
does not therefore require for its exemption any positive enactment by Congress.
"Such is the case of a portion being lost by perils of the sea,
or by being thrown overboard to save the ship, or by fire, or
piracy, or larceny, or barratry, or a sale and delivery on the
voyage, or by natural decay _ If there be a material loss, it can
make no difference to the sufferer or the government whether
it happened by natural or artificial causes. In either case, the
article to that extent is not here to be assessed, nor to be of any
value to the owner.
"To add to such unfortunate losses, the burden of a duty on
them, imposed afterwards, would be an uncalled for aggravation, would be adding cruelty to misfortune, and would not be

OCTOBER TERMI, 1902.
Opiamon of the Court.

justified by any sound reason or any express provision of law.
On the contrary, Congress, in several instances, when the
articles imported actually arrived here, and were afterwards
destroyed by fire before the packages had been open and entered into the consumption of the country, have refunded or
remitted the duties. 2 Stat. 201, 5 Stat. 284, 6 Stat. 2.
"But much more should duties not be exacted on what was
lost or destroyed on its way hither, and which never came even
into the possession or control of the custom-house officers, and
much less into the. use of the community."'
The doctrine of this decision plearly supports the proposition
that it would be inequitable and presumably not within the intention of Congress to assess duty upon an article which on a
voyage to this country and before arrival within the limits of a
port of entry had become utterly worthless by reason of casualty,
decay or other natural causes, and which the importer might
rightfully abandon and refuse to receive or enter for consumption. /In other words, that articles thus circumstanced were not
in truth within the category of goods, wares and merchandise
imported into the United States, within the meaning of the
tariff laws. The ruling in -Marriottv Brune was approved and
applied in United States v Southmayd, 9 How 637, and lawrence v Caswell, and it has been consistently recognized by this
court that as a general rule duties are intended to be levied
only upon the value of goods which possess some intrinsic or
other value at the time when ordinarily the duty would attach
on an article.
That the policy we have stated was regarded by Congress as
the true doctrine to be applied, is shown by the legislation with
respect to the remission of duties upon goods, wares and merchandise in general, to the extent that the same were damaged.
Thus, as stated in United States v Backe, 59 Fed. Rep. 762,
763, the statutory system, from 1799 to the adoption of the
tariff act of October 1, 1890, in regard to rebates of duties on
account of, damage to imported merchandise in transit, was embodied in section 2927 of the Revised Statutes, being a substantial reproduction of a section of the act of 1799. The section
of the Revised Statutes reads as follows.

LAWDER v. STONE.
Opimon of the Court.

"SEc. 2927. In respect to artitles that have been damaged
during, the voyage, whether subject to a duty ad valorem, or
chargeable with a specific duty either by number, weight, or
measure, the appraisers shall ascertain and certify to what rate
or percentage the merchandise is damaged, and the rate of percentage of damage, so ascertained and certified, shall be deducted from the original amount, subject to a duty ad valorem,
or from the actual or original number, weight, or measure, on
which specific duties would have been computed. No allowance, however, for the damage on any merchandise, that has
been entered, and on which the duties have been paid or secured
to be paid, and for which a permit has been granted to the
owner or consignee thereof, and which may on examimng the
same prove to be damaged, shall be made, unless proof to ascertain such damage shall be lodged in the custom-house of the
port where such merchandise has been landed, within ten days
after the landing of such merchandise."
So, also, by section 2921 of the Revised Statutes, it was provided as follows
"Sic. 2921. If, on the opening of any package, a deficiency
of any article shall be found, on examination by the appraisers,
the same shall be certified to the collector on the invoice, and
an allowance for the same be made in estimating the duties."
By the act of July 14, 1870, 16 Stat. 256, 265, however, an
exception was engrafted upon the general provision as to allowances for damage which might have resulted to goods, wares and
merchandise on the voyage, by the enactment that no allowance
should be made with respect to certain fruits, for loss by decay
on a voyage, unless the same should exceed twenty-five per
centun of the whole quantity, and the allowance then made
should be only for the amount of loss in excess of twenty-five
per centumn of the whole quantity As said in Sattergood v
Tutton, 2 Fed. Rep. 28, the limitation was applied "manifestly
to avoid allowance for trifling losses." While, however, certain
fruits were made dutiable by the tariff act of March 3, 1883,
22 Stat. 488, 504, and certain other fruits (including pineapples)
were placed on the free list, 22 Stat. 519, the discrimination referred to against damage allowances upon importations of fruit

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

was not continued, and in section 23 of the customs adnnstrative act of 1890 fruits are not discriminated against.
In its decisions upon applications of importers to be exempted
from payment of duties because of the practical destruction of
an article while in transit to this country, or for an allowance
because of damage occasioned to imported goods before arrival
-here, the Treasury Department has frequently applied the doctrine enunciated by this court in .Marr wt v Brune, viz., that
the purpose of Congress in enacting tariff laws was to exact
the payment of duty only upon imported articles which were
in truth and in fact, entitled to the appellation of goods, wares
and merchandise, articles which were not absolutely worthless
but may possess some value for use or consumption. Thus, in
Treasury Decision No. 424, of date July 15, 1869, duties were
ordered to be remitted on four cases of needles which had become worthless by reason of being submerged in salt water on
the voyage of importation. It was held that the case did not
come within the prohibition of the thirty-third paragraph of
the third section of the act of July 14, 1862, which prescribed
that no allowance for partial loss or decay should be made in
consequence of rust of iron or steel, etc. Again, in Treasury
Decision No. 1167, of date July 8,1872, fruit which hadbecome
worthless on the voyage of importation was held not dutiable,
and the provision of the act of July 14, 1870, limiting the damage allowance on fruit, was held not to apply, and it was ordered that the case should be treated as if no importation had
been made. In the course of the decision, known as Treasury
Decision No. 3236, of date May 14, 1877, afte ruling that the
"quantity'" specified in the act of July 14, 1870, limiting allowances for damage to green fruit, referred to the quantity
specified in the damage application and landed in the United
States, it was observed (italics not in the original)
"In many instances a _POrtion of a cargo of green fruit becomes wholly worthless by decay, and such portion is to be
excluded in considering the quantity upon which damage is to
be estimated unless it is included in the damage warrant."
In Treasury Decision No. 3272, dated June 21, 1877, passing
upon a case where an importer, in his application for damage

LAWDER v. STONE.
Opimon of the Court.

allowance upon forty-one barrels of oranges, included as part
of the forty-one barrels, twenty and a half barrels of entirely
worthless oranges, it was declared that, if the goods had been
landed in .the United States as any other merchandise and no
damage application had been filed, duty *rould have accrued
thereon, Whereas if they had been thrown overboard at sea,
no duty would accrue, as there would have been no importation
of that quantity In Treasury Decision No. 4126, of date
August 1, 1879, upon application being made for a damage allowance upon an invoice of certain oranges and lemons, the
goods were reported damaged "to the extent of one hundred
per cent, in other words, entirely worthless." The ruling in
Treasury Decision No. 1167 was applied, and it was held that,
where fruit was so damaged on the voyage of importation as to
be entirely worthless, the clause in the statute limiting the damage allowance to the excess over twenty-five per cent did not
apply, and that the case should be treated the same as if no importation had been made. Treasury Decision No. 9719, dated
November 19, 1889, reads as follows
"Si - The Department is in receipt of your letter of the
13th instant, reporting further on the appeal (537x) of Messrs.
Riley & Grey from your assessment of duty on certain card
clothing, imported by them per ' Bulgarian' February 16,1889,
and found, upon examination, to have been destroyed by-water
during the voyage of importation.
"The appraiser reports that the clothing in question was
wound in coils, and has been subjected to a complete soaking
with salt water, which has permeated the entire coil, oxidizing
the wire and completely rotting the cotton backing, so that it
is absolutely worthless, and cannot be used for any purpose
whatever, even as old junk.
"In view of this report, the Department is of opimon that
the card clothing is not an importation of merchandise within
the meaning of the law, and you are hereby authorized to readjust the entry and to refund the duty levied thereon."
After the passage of the customs administrative act of June 10,
1890, the board of general appraisers, on June 6, 1891, announced its decision upon a protest against the exaction of
VOL. CLXXXVII-19

OCTOBER TERNd, 1902.
Opimon of the Court.

duty on an alleged shortage of 35,700 oranges, part of an invoice of 280,000 oranges, on which entry had been made and
the duty paid. The shortage was not ascertained until after
the payment of the duties, and such shortage was presumably
represented by a quantity of "rots and slush," which had been
removed from the vessel in obedience to the health ordinance
of the city of Baltimore. The collector and naval officer reported that they were satisfied by proof that the 35,700 oranges
became rotten and worthless on the voyage and never went
into consumption. It was held that the collector was authorized to make allowance for the shortage in the liquidation of
the duty on the entries. In the course of the decision it was
said
"As they could not be abandoned in the manner provided
for the abandonment of merchandise in section 23 of the act
aforesaid, the collector exacted duty upon the entire entry.
Article 609 of the General Regulations permits an allowance
for lost or missing articles when it is shown by proof satisfactory to the collector and naval officer that they have been
lost or destroyed by accident during the voyage. Loss of fruit
by decay may reasonably -be held to be an accident, it, bemg a
loss by a contingency, chance or casualty Section 23 aforesaid
would not apply where there had been a total loss of dutiable
articles, for the word 'damaged' is there used in the sense of
impairment or injury, and the section contemplates that some.
thing remains to be abandoned."
Treasury Decision No. 16,138, dated June 8, 1895, related
to a claim of allowance for shortage on an importation of.cocoanuts, the shortage being occasioned by the rotting and
breaking of certain cocoanuts on the voyage of importation.
In consequence of the ruling in United States v Bache, 59 Fed.
Rep. 162, wherein it was held that glass broken on the voyage
of importation, but wk'wlo possessed some valuefor remanufacture, should be allowed for as a damage within the meaning of
section 23 of the customs administrative act of 1890, the Treasury Department refused to accept the doctrine laid down by
the board of general appraisers, vIz., that merchandise the value
of which is totally destroyed ceases to be damage and may

LAWDER -v. STONE.
Opimon of the Court.

properly be treated as a shortage. This last was but another
form of stating the proposition that that which has been rendered worthless on the voyage to this country, by casualty,
decay or other natural causes, is not embraced within the category of goods, wares and merchandise, even though existent
on the vessel on its arrival within the limits of a port of entry
On the controversy, however, being brought into the courts,
the decision of the board of general appraisers was upheld.
Shaw, Collector, v. Thx, 72 Fed. Rep. 166. In distinguishing
the case before it from the Bache case the court said (p. 167)
"InLUnited &ates v Bache, 8 C. C. A. 258, 59 Fed. Rep.
762, the facts presented raised a very different issue. The
in gortation was glass in cases or packages, and a considerable
brekkage of glass in the cases odourred during the voyage.
The cases all arrived. The contents were not destroyed, but
were damaged. It was clearly a case within thb language of
section 23, and no question would have arisen but for the fact
that ' broken glass fit only to be remanufactured' was by law
exempt from duty,, and admitted free. The importer claimed
that as, during the voyage, a portion of each case became
broken glass, its character as merchandise was changed, and it
became an article specifically exempted from duty, and entitled to come in free, and that' it made no difference that the
dutiable and non-dutiable goods happened to come into this
country in the same box. He claimed that he was chargeable
with duty on the merchandise as it came into this country and
not as it was when it was put aboard the ship in the foreign
port. It was held by the Circuit Court of Appeals for the"
Second Circuit that, Congress having enacted a general statutory
system for the ascertainment of the damage to imported goods,
and for allowance in respect to such damage, it could not be supposed that damages to importations of glass were to be exem pted out of that general system simply because importations
of brokenglass had been put. on the free list, and held that there
was nothing indicating an intention by Congress to take the one
article of glass out of the general system. The general system
provides that, if the damage amounts to ten per cent of the
total invoice, the inporter may abandon any portion of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opmion of the Court.

invoice and be relieved from the duties on the portion so
abandoned.
"I think it is clear that the board of general appraisers was
right in holding, in deciding the present case, that this section
contemplated a case where there remains something to be
abandoned, in the sense of being impaired in value, but that it
is not applicable to a case where specific items of the invoice
have been so entirely destroyed as that, in reckoning up to the
items of the invoice, they cannot be counted, and where the
destroyed items are valueless, and there remains nothing
which can be the subject of abandonment. Section 23 of the
act of 1890 is not inconsistent with the general provisions of
section 2921 of the Revised Statutes, nor with sections 906 and
922 of the General Regulations, providing that, if the quantity
which arrives is less than the invoice, there may be an allowance for the deficiency In the present case it was not possible
for the appraisers to say what number of cocoanuts was contained in the mass of d66rms remaining after the discharge of
the cargo. It was estimated that this mass contained the difference between the number discharged and the number stated
in the invoice. But the number specified in the invoice is not
the result of an accurate count, the nuts being often brought
on board in small boats through the surf, so that it is not possible to say with any accuracy what number the mass of
dj~lnz8 did represent. It is quite manifest that there is no
ground for the contention that section 23 is applicable to this
case. The decision of the board of general appraisers is
sustained."
Article 1236 of the customs regulations of 1899 was referred
to in the argument.at bar as supporting the contention on behalf of the government that Congress intended by section 23
of the customs administrative act of June 10, 1890, to classify
everything reaching this country, invoiced from a foreign port,
as imported goods, wares and merchandise, however worthless
specific articles might have become during the voyage. But
the regulation lends no support to this contention. It was based
upon section 298d of the Revised Statutes, which conferred authority upon the Secretary of the Treasury to remit impost

LAWDER v. STONE.
Opinion of the Court.

duties paid or accruing upon imported merchandise which had
been injured by accidental fire or other casualty after arriving
in this country and while in the actual or constructive possession
of the officers of the government. In effect, by the terms of
the regulation, section 2984 of the Revised Statutes is construed
as not conferring authority upon the Secretary of the Treasury
to make allowances for any deterioration or damage to such
merchandise from natural or avoidable causes, arising after the
arrival of merchandise and the attaching of duties thereon, a
ruling which throws no light upon the proper decision of the
question we are considering.
When Congress enacted the customs administrative act of
1890 it must, be presumed to have possessed knowledge of the
decisions of this court to which we have referred and the consistent application made of the doctrine of those decisions by
the officials charged with the execution of the tariff laws, as
evidenced by the cited Treasury decisions. In the light of this
fact, it would require a clear expression by Congress of its intention to adopt a contrary policy, before a court would be justified in holding that such was the purpose of the legislative
branch of the government. Section 23 of the customs administrative act contains no such clear expression of an intention
to alter the prior practice, but the contrary The referencain
section 23 to an allowance for "damage," and the provision
that the abandoned portion of cargo should "be sold by public auction or otherwise disposed of for the account or credit of
the United States," manifestly imports that it related to an
article winch when the duty attached was possessed of some
value, and therefore negatives the idea that Congress was concerning itself with that which was destitute of all value. When,
therefore, it was enacted that in a certain contingency no allowance should be made for "damage to goods, wares and merchandise imported into the United States," it is reasonable to
construe this language as not referring to an article, case or
package, which though in the semblance of merchandise, had
become absolutely valueless by reason of natural causes or casualty occurring thereto while the article, case or package was in
transit to the United States. The section then not embracing

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Syllabus.

articles which upon arrival in this country were outside of the
category of imported goods, wares and merchandise, such articles must te held, in accordance with the prior rulings on the
subject, not to be susceptible to assessment for duty If, as is
conceded by the government, the rotten and worthless pineapples in question had been thrown overboard before the vessel
reached this country, and no duty could have been assessed upon
the fruit thus disposed of, the circumstance that the mass of
rotten fruit in question could not perhaps have been gotten at
upon the voyage by reason of the extent and character of the
cargo of which it formed a part, so as to permit of the worthless
stuff being dumped overboard before the arrival of the vessel in
the United States, ought not, in justice, to debar the importer
from successfully contending that the worthless material when
it reached this country was not goods, wares or merchandise
within the intent of the tariff acts.
Judgment qf the Circuit Court of Appeals ss reversed, )udgment of the Circuit Court aflrmed , and the cause remanded to that court with a directionto carry dls judgment
'oto effect.

CHEROKEE NATION v. HITCHCOCK.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.
No. 340. Submitted October 23,1902.-Decided December 1, 1902.

In an action brought by the Cherokee Nation to enjoin the Secretary of the
Interior from leasing oil lands held for the benefit of said Nation under
section 13 of the act of Congress approved June 20, 1898, it is not necessary to join as parties defendants the persons or corporations to whom
the 'Secretary proposes to make the leases.
The act of Congress entitled "An act for the protection of the people of
the Indian Territoryi and for other purposes," approved June 28, 1898,
which by section 13 thereof gives the Secretary of the Interior exclusive. power over oil, coal, asphalt and other minerals in said Territory,
and authorizes him to make leases of oil, coal, asphalt and other minerals

