OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Statement of the Case.

LAYTON v. MISSOURI.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MISSOURI.
No. 69. Submitted November 6,1902.-Decided December 22,10.

Where the record does not show that it was contended in the state court
that a state law under which the plaintiff in error was convicted was in
contravention of the Constitution of the United States, the objection
that the law is unconstitutional must be regarded as relating only to the
constitution of the State.
Where the highest court of a State sustains the validity of a statute of the
State when tested by the provisions of the constitution of that State, it
cannot be regarded as having decided a Federal question because the
provisions of the state constitution are similar to those of the Fourteenth Amendment, if it appears from the record that it was not called
upon to do so and its decision rested upon another ground.
When the highest court of a State holds that it has no jurisdiction of an
appeal on the ground that a constitutional question is involved unless
the question was raised in, and submitted to, the trial court, this court
cannot interfere with the action of the state court in adhering to that
conclusion.
Nor can this -court review the final judgment of the state courts on the
ground that the validity'of state enactments under the Constitution of
the United States has been adjudged when those courts have done nothing more than to decline to pass on the Federal question because not
raised in the trial court as required by the state practice.
See also Jacobt v. Alabama, decided this term, p. 133, ante.

was prosecuted in the St. Louis Court of Criminal
Correction, on information, for violation of an act of the general assembly of the State of Missouri, entitled, "An act to prevent the use of unhealthy chemicals or substances in the preparation or manufacture of any article used or to be used in the
preparation of food," approved May 11, 1899, and reading as
LAYTON

follows
"SEC. 1. That it shall be unlawful for any person or corporation doing-business in this State to manufacture, sell or offer to
sell any articlej compound or preparation, for the purpose of
being used or which is intended to be used in the preparation

LAYTON v. MISSOURI.
Statement of the Case.

of food, in which article, compound or preparation, there is any
arsenic, calomel, bismuth, ammonia or alum.
"Sxo. 2. Any person or corporation violating the provisions
of this act shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and shall,
upon conviction, be fined not less than one hundred dollars,
which shall be paid into and become a part of the road fund of
the county in which such fine is collected." Laws, Missouri,
1899, p. 170.
The information charged that the defendant in the city of
St. Louis, then and there doing business in the State of kissouri,
unlawfully manufactured, sold and offered for sale a certain
compound and preparation for the purpose of its being used and
with intent that it should be used in the preparation of food, and
that said compound and preparation so manufactured and sold
contained alum.
Defendant pleaded not guilty, and, a jury being waived, the
cause was submitted to the court for trial.
The compound and preparation consisted of two dozen one
pound cans of baking powder and the facts as charged in the
information were admitted, but defendant contended that he
should not be convicted because the statute was unconstitutional.
And he offered voluminous evidence tending to show the details of the manufacture of baking powders of various kinds,
and among them baking powders containing alum, as well as
the history of the business of the manufacturing, selling and
using alum baking powders, which tended to establish that that
business was, and had been for many years, very extensive in
Missouri and in the United States, and that defendant for some
years before the statute was enacted had been engaged in that
business. He further offered evidence to the effect that the use
of alum in baking powders was wholesome, useful and economical, and that most grocers in Missouri kept and sold alum baking powders, and no harm had been known to result from
their use in the preparation of food. All this evidence, on objection by the State for incompetency, irrelevancy and immateriality, was excluded by the court, and defendant excepted.
Defendant asked the court to give six separate instructions
predicated on the admission of the testimony which hadt been

OCTO3ER TERM. 1902.
Opnon of the Court,

excluded, in which the court was requested to declare the law
to be that defendant must be acquitted, if the court sitting as a
jury found the facts to be as the excluded evidence tended to
show These instructions were refused and defendant excepted.
The court found defendant guilty as charged in the information, and assessed the penalty at $100. Motions for new trial
and in arrest were made and overruled, and exceptions taken.
Judgment having been entered, defendant perfected an appeal
to the Supreme Court of the State of Missouri, and the cause
was docketed in Division No. 2 of that court, being the criminal
division. The judgment was affirmed, 160 Missouri, 4 4, and
thereupon defendant moved that the cause be transferred to the
court in banc, which motion was overruled. The case was then
brought here on writ of error.
MYr Silas H. &rawn and M1r James L. Blazr for plaintiff
in error. Ab' James H. Seddon and .Afr Stanly Stoner were
with them on the brief.
.' E. 0. Crow, attorney general of the State of'Missouri,
for defendant in error.
MR. Cni F JUSTiE FuLLBER, after making the foregoing statement, delivered the opinion of the court.
While it appears from the proceedings on the trial and the
grounds assigned for the motion for new trial that the unconstitutionality of the act was relied on. in defence, the record
does not show that it was contended in the trial court that the
act was in contravention of the Constitution of the United
States, and it is settled that the objection in the state courts
that an act of the State is "unconstitutional and void," relates
only to the power of the state legislature under the state confiller v Cornwall Railroad Comany, 168 U. S.
stitution.
131, Jacobz v. Alabama, ante, p. 133.
In the Supreme Court of Missouri. Division No. 2, Layton
filed his statement and brief, which brief contauled an assignof errorsias required by- the rules of that court. Four
ment
I

LAYTON v. MISSOURI.
Opimon of the Court.

errors were assigned, the third of which was that "the court
erred in refusing to declare that the law under which the defendant was convicted was unconstitutional and void." This
assignment was followed by points, one of which was that "the
law under which the defendant was convicted conflicts with the
Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution of the United
States, which guarantees to every man the equal protection of
the law, " and these points were accompanied by printed argnments, in which it was insisted that the law violated "the
guaranties of the constitutions of the State of Missouri and of
the United States, in that it deprives the appellant of his liberty
and his property without due process of law"
The Supreme Court, however, did not in terms pass on the
question whether the act was in contravention of the Constitution of the United States, and on the contrary said that its constitutionality was assailed on two grounds, namely that it violated the provisions of section 28 of article 4 of the constitution
of Missouri, providing that no bill "shall contain more than
one subject, winch shall be clearly expressed," and that it conflicted.with sections 4 and 30 of article 2 of that constitution,
providing "that all persons have a natural right to life, liberty
and the enjoyment of the gains of their own industry, that to
give security to these things is the principal office of government
;"and "that no person shall be deprived of life,
liberty or property without due process of law"
It was held that when an act of the legislature is attacked as
unconstitutional because invading the right of the citizen to use
his faculties in the production of an article for sale for food or
drink, the rule of construction that legislative acts should not
be declared void "unless the, violation of the constitution is so
manifest as to leave no room for reasonable doubt," required
the test of constitutionality to be that "if it be an article so
universally conceded to be wholesome and innocuous that the
court may take judicial notice of it, the legislature, under the
constitution, has no right to absolutely prohibit it, but if there
is a dispute as to the fact of its wholesomeness for food or drink,
then the legislatute can either regulate or prohibit it;" and the
validity of the act was sustained.

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opimon of the Court.

The decision was strictly a decision sustaining its validity
when tested by the provisions of the state constitution, and
whatever the similarity between the language of those provisions and that of the Fourteenth Amendment the state court
cannot be regarded as having decided the Federal question now
suggested because necessarily involved in the case, if it appears
from the record that it was not called upon to do so, and that
its decision rested on another ground.
After judgment was entered affirming the judgment of the
trial court, defendant moved that the cause be transferred to
the court in banc, and the motion was denied.
By the constitution of Missouri, the Supreme Court was divided into two divisions, Division No. 1, consisting of four judges,
and Division.No. 2, consisting of three judges, the latter having
exclusive cognizance of all criminal causes, and it was provided
that cases, in certain circumstances, among others when a Federal question was involved, on the application of the losing party,
should be transferred to a full bench for decision. Duncan v.
Xissour'z, 152 U S. 377[, 3foore v _Ii8soun, 159 U. S. 673,
679. And see 1ailway Companiy v. Eliott, 1841 U. S. 530, as
to exclusive appellate jurisdiction of state Supreme Court over
cases involving constitutional questions.
It thus appears that the Supreme Court, not only by declining to consider the contention in the brief and argument in
respect of the Fourteenth Amendment, but by denying the
motion to transfer the cause, was of opinion that the validity
of 'the statute was not so drawn in question for repugnancy to
the'Constitution of the United States as to require decision as
to its validity in that view
The rules of the court provided "The brief filed by appellant shall distinctly and separately alleg6 the errors committed
by the inferior court, and no reference will be permitted at the
argument to the errorg not thus specified, unless for good cause
shown the court shall otherwise direct." Rule 15, cl. 3, 160
Mvfissouri, Appendix, iv
By rule of Division No. 2, in criminal cases, printed statements containing assignment of errors and brief of points of
argument were required, or, in prosecutions mforma pauperw,
the same in typewriting. 160 Missouri, Appendix, vi.

LAYTON v. MISSOURL
Opinion of the Court.

Errors were-so assigned, but the only one of them which referred to the constitutionality of the act was the third, stating
that "the court erred in refusing to declare that the law under
which the defendant was convicted was unconstitutional and
void." This related to the state constitution, and the court so
treated it, and confined its decision to the errors specified.
Whether it was obliged to do this is not material, as the court
in any event proceeds on ther record of the trial court for errors
committed there. Exceptions in criminal cases occupy the same
footing as in civil. State v. Canflin, 118 Missouri, 111; State
v. Swre, 1 1 Missouri, 61, State v Wiley, 141 Missouri, 274,
B& v. Baton, 142 Missouri, 450.
And it has been repeatedly laid down by the Supreme Court
of Missouri in disposing of questions of jurisdiction as between
itself and intermediate courts of appeal that "The appellate
jurisdiction of the SupremeCourt. contemplates a review only
of the matters submitted to, and examined-and determined by
the trial court. Hence it is well settled that this court has no
jurisdiction of an appeal, on the ground that a constitutional
question is involved, unless the question was raised in and submitted to the trial cour." Brownng v. Powers, 142 Missouri,
322, Bennett v. Railway Co., 105 Missouri, 645, S'ewalter v
Railway Company, 152 Missouri, 551.
As we observed in Jacobi's case, p. 133, ante, we cannot interfere with the action of the highest court of a State in adhering
to the usual course of its judgments, and w6 have frequently
ruled that this court cannot review the final judgments of the
state courts on the ground that the validity of state enactments
under the Constitution of the United, States had been adjudged
where those courts "did nothing more than decline to pass
upon the Federal question because not raised in the trial court
as required by the state practice." .Ere Railroad Comipany
v Purdy,185 U S.148, 154.
This case falls within that rule, and the writ of error is
Dirnmsed.,

