OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Syllabus.

development of the tribal property, which still remains subject
to the administrative control of the government, even though
the members of the tribe have been invested with the status
of citizenship under recent legislation.
We are not concerned m this case with the question whether
the act of June 28, 1898, and the proposed action thereunder,
which is complained of, is or is not wise, and calculated to
operate beneficially to the interests of the Cherokees. The
power existing m Congress to administer upon and guard the
tribal ptoperty, and the power being political and administrative in its nature, the manner of its exercise is a question within
the province of the legislative branch to determine, and is not
one for the courts.
Afflrmed.

EQUITABLE LIFE ASSURANCE SOCIETY v. BROWN.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF HAWAII.
No. 320. Submitted October 20, 1902.-Decided December 1, 1902.
The jurisdiction to review judgments or decrees of the courts of the Territory of Hawaii is to be determined, not by the law governing as respects Territories generally, but by Rev. Stat. ยง 709, relating to the power
to review judgments and decrees of state courts.
Although in cases coming within the purview of Rev. Stat. ยง 709, a Federal question-not inherently such-has been explicitly raised below, if
such claim be frivolous or has been so absolutly foreclosed by previous

rulings of this court as to leave no room for real controversy, a motion
to dismiss will prevail.
A New York life insurance corporation did business in Hawaii and, under
statutory regulations, was there subject to suit. It delivered a policy in
Hawaii to a person there domiciled, which was among the effects of such
person in Hawaii of which possession was taken by an administrator appointed by the Hawaiian courts. Suit was brought in Hawaii upon the
policy and judgment was recovered. Held, that the assertion that the
policy had its situs, for the purposes of suit, solely at the domicil of the
corporation was unfounded, and that the claim was so completely foreclosed by prior rulings as to come within the principle stated in the preceding paragraph.

EQUITABLE LIFE ASSURANCE SOCIETY v. BROWN. 309
Opinion of the Court.
TE

.r

case is stated in the opinion of the court.
Allan .Eculloh for plaintiff in error.

.7r..Cecil Brown, z

ropuperson, for defendant in error.

1MR. JusTicE WHITE delivered the opinion of the court.

The questions for decision arise on a motion to dismiss or
affirm this writ of error which is prosecuted to a judgment of
the Supreme Court of the Territory of Hawaii. The act of
April 30, 1900, providing a government for the Territory of
Hawaii, c. 339, 31 Stat. 141, enacts (see. 86) that "The laws
of the United States relating to appeals, writs of error, removal
of causes, and other matters and proceedings as between the
courts of the United States and the courts of the several States
shall govern in such matters and proceedings as between the
courts of the United States and the courts of the Territory of
Hawaii." It follows that the jurisdiction of this court to review
judgments of the courts of the Territory 6f Hawaii is more restricted than is the jurisdiction to review the judgments of the
courts of other organized Territorips, and isto be measured by
the power conferred upon this court to review judgments of
state courts. Rev. Stat. ยง 709. In Ex parte Wilder's Steamboat Company, 183 U. S.545, the distinction made by the law
in question between Hawaii and other Territories was pointed
out.
The case, as stated below, and as substantially admitted by
both parties in their printed argument, is as follows
David B. Smith died, intestate, on December 24, 1899, in the
city of San Francisco.. Long prior to and at the time of his
death he was domiciled in Hllnolulu, in the Territory of Hawaii.
He there applied to the plaintiff in error, a New York corpora.
tion, for a policy on his life payable to his estate. The policy
was issued, was delivered to Smith in Honolulu, and was found
among his effects in Honolulu after his death. At the instance
of the .daughter of the deceased, who was his legal heir, the defendant in error was appointed administrator of the estate of

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

Smith by a Hawaiian court having jurisdiction to that end, and
the administrator took possession of the policy and made the
requisite proof of death. After the appointment of the Hawaiian administrator and the making by him of the proof of
death, a relative of the deceased made application to a court in
the city of New York for letters of administration upon the
estate of Smith, which were issued. Prior to any attempted
action by the New York administrator to enforce the policy in
question, in consequence of the refusal of the insurance company to pay the loss, the Hawaiian administrator brought suit
in a court in Hawaii having jurisdiction, to recover the amount
of the insurance. Service of process in this action was made
on the general agent of the insurance company in Hawaii, which
agent, the Supreme Court of the Territory declared in its opinion rendered in this cause, "we presume, is the person designated for such purpose by the defendant under the statute.
CiV L. ch. 130, since amended, Laws of 1898, act 45. At any
rate, the defendant answered generally, and did not question
the validity of the service." Before the trial of the cause in the
courts of. Hawaii the administrator appointed in New York instituted an action upon the policy against the insurance company in the Circuit Court of the United States for the Southern
District of New York. When the suit came to trial in ihe
Hawaiian court, no judgment having been rendered in the suit
brought in New York, the defendant corporation, to support its
contention that the plaintiff was not entitled to recover, claimed
the benefit of the due faith and credit clause of the Constitution
of the United States, and to sustain this asserted right offered
proof of the-appointment of the New York administrator and
tendered an exemplification of the record of the proceedings
had in the action, brought by the New York administrator in
the Federal court in that State. The trial court rejected the
evidence and. exceptions were duly taken. -A verdict was returned in favor of -the plaintiff for the full amount sued for.
The case having been taken to -the Supreme Court of the Territory the judgment was affirmed, the court expressly deciding
that the right asserted under the due faith and credit clause of
the Constitution-of the United States was without merit. From

EQUITABLE LIFE ASSURANCE SOCIETY v. BROWN. 311
Opinion of the Court.

the foregoing it results that a claun under the Constitution and
laws of the United States was made and decided in the court
below, and if the fact that such a claim was formally made and
disposed of below without reference to its substantial foundation determines the question of jurisdiction, the motion to dismiss must be denied. But it is settled that not every mere
allegation of a Federal question will suffice to give jurisdiction.
"There must be a real, substantive question on which the case
may be made to turn," that is, "a real and not a merely formal
Federal question is essential to the jurisdiction of this court."
-Stated in another form, the doctrine thus declared is, that although, in considering a motion to dismiss, it be found that a
question adequate abstractly considered to confer jurisdiction
was raised, if it likewise appear that such question is wholly
formal, is so absolutely devoid of merit as to be frivolous, or has
been so explicitly foreclosed by a decision or decisions of this
court as to leave no room for real controversy, the motion to
dismiss will prevail. New Oplean8 Waterworks Co. v _ouz&zana,
185 U. S. 336, 345, and authorities there cited. The power,
however, to dismiss because of the want of substantiality iu the
claim upon which the assertion of jurisdiction is predicated,
does not apply to cases where the subject-matter of the controversy isper se and inherently Federal. Swaffrd v Templeto,
185 U S. 487, 493. It has also been decided by this court that
even where the motion to dismiss is denied, and where such
motion should be treated as without color, considering alone
the formal making of such question, yet notwithstanding the
provisions of subdivision 5 -of rule 6, the power to consider and
sustain a motion to affirm obtains where the assignments of
error on the merits are obviously and unquestionably frivolous,
or when it is patent that the writ of error has been prosecuted
for mere delay, or where it is evident on the face of the record
that the question on the merits is not open to possible contention because it has previously been so specifically and adversely
ruled on by the court as to absolutely foreclose further contention on the subject. Chanute v !Tr'ader,132 U. S. 210, _ichardson v. Louwville & N R . R. Co., 169 U. S. 128, Blythe v
Hinckley, 180 U. S. 333, 338.

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

Is the motion to dismiss or the motion to affirm within the
principles established by prior decisions of this court as just
previously stated? In substance, the contention of the plaintiff in error is that on the facts above recited the situs of the
indebtedness upon the policy in question was an asset solely
within the jurisdiction of the State of New York and of its
courts, and that the debt had not its situs in the Territory of
Hawaii, the dormcil of the deceased, where the policy was delivered and where it was actually present. But this contention
has in effect been decided by this court to be unsound. -ew
Insurance Co2nany v IFoodworth, 111 U. S.
England i.Dfe
138. In that case recovery was had in a court of the United
States in the State of Illinois upon an insurance policy issued
on the life of a resident of the State of Michigan by a corporation which had been chartered in the State of Massachusetts.
At the time of her death the deceased was still a resident of
the State of Michigan. It was argued in this court, on behalf
of the defendant in error, that the Illinois court which had
granted the letters of administration had no power to do so,
because the State of Illinois was not the domicil of the decedent, because there-were no assets belonging to the decedent
in Illinois at the time of her death, and the bringing of the
policy subsequently into Illinois did not constitute the debt thereunder an asset of the estate of the decedent, as such a debt was
a simple contract debt and was a local asset only at Boston, the
domicil of the debtor company It was however held that
the letters of administration issued by the Illinois court were
apparently authorized by law, and that it was essential that
the facts detailed in the record should distinctly negative the
validity of such authority, before it could be adjudicated that
the plaintiff's authority to sue was not supported by them.
The court then said (p. 144)
"This is not done. On the contrary, the declaration of the
letters that the intestate had personal property in Illinois when
she died, is, we think, supported by what appears in the record,
even if such property consisted- solely of this policy
"In the growth of this country, and the expansions and ramifications of business, and the free commercial intercourse be-

EQUIrABLE LIFE ASSURANCE SOCIETY v. BROWN. 313
Opmion of the Court.

tween the States of the Union, it has come to pass that large
numbers of life and fire insurance companies and other corporations, established with the accumulated capital and wealth of
the-richer parts of the country, seek business and contracts in
distant States which open a large and profitable field. The inconveniences and hardships resulting from the necessity on the
part of creditors, of going to distant places to bring suits on
policies and contracts, and from the additional requirement, in
case of death, of taking out letters testamentary or of administration at the original domicil of the corporation debtor, in order to sue, has led to the enactment in many States of statutes
which enable resident creditors to bring suits there against corporations created by the laws of other States. Such a statute
existed in Illinois, in the present case, requiring every life insurance company not organized in Illinois to appoint in writing
a resident attorney, upon whom all lawful process against the
company might be served with like effect as if the company existed in Illinois, the writing to stipulate that any lawful process
against the company, served on the attorney, should be of the
same legal force and validity as if served on the company, a duly
authenticated copy of the writing to be filed in the office of the
auditor, and the agency tobe continued while any liability should
remain outstanding against the company in Illinois, and the
power not to be revoked until the same power should be given
to another, and a like copy be so filed, the statute also providing that service upon said attorney should be deemed sufficient
service on the company Revised Statutes of 1874, chap. 73,
ยง 50, p. 607.
"In view of this legislation and th policy embodied in it,
when this corporation, not organized under the laws df Illinois, has, by virtue of those laws, a place of business in Illinois,
and a general agent there, and a resident attorney there for the
service of process, and can be compelled to pay its debts there
by judicial process, and has issued a policy payable, on death,
to an administrator, the corporation must be regarded as. having a domicil there, in the sense of the rule that the debt on the
policy is assets at its domicil, so as to uphold the grant of letters of administration there. The corporation will be presumed

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

to have been doing business in Illinois by virtue of its laws at
the time the intestate died, in view of the fact that it was so
doingbusiness there when this suit was brought (as the bill of
6xceptions alleges), in the absence of any statement in the record that it was not so doing business there when the intestate
died. In view of the statement in the letters, if the only personal property the inte tate had was the policy, as the bill of
exceptions states, it was for the corporation to show affirmatively that it was not doing business in Illinois when she died,
in order to overthrow the validity of the letters, by thus showing that the policy was not assets in Illinois when she died."
Indeed, the contention that because the policy was issued by
a New York corporation and was payable in the State of New
York, it could not be sued upon by one having possession of it
at the domicil of the deceased in another State or in a Territory, is directly contrary to the settled rule upheld by the Court
of Appeals of the State of New York. Sulz v Mfutual Reserve
-FundLtfe Assoctation, 145 N. Y 563.
From the analysis just made, it results that although a Federal question was raised below in a formal manner, that question, when examined with reference to the averments of fact
upon which it was made to depend, is one which has been so explicitly decided by this court as to foreclose further argument
on the subject and hence to cause the Federal question relied
upon to be devoid of any substantil foundation or merit. This
being so, the case is brought directly within the rule announced
in New Orleans Waterworks Company v Louzsana, supra,
and authorities there cited. It is likewise also apparent from the
analysis previously made that even if the formal raising of a Federal question was alone considered on the motion to dismiss,
and therefore the unsubstantial nature of the Federal question
for the purposes of the motion to dismiss were to be put out of
view, the judgment below would have to be affirmed. This
follo.ws, since it is plain that asthe substantiality of the claim
of 7Federal right is the matter upon which the merits depend,
and that claim being without any substantial foundation, the
motion to affirm would have to be granted under the rule announced in Chanute v Tpader, Richardson v Louisville and

FIDELITY & DEPOSIT CO. v. UNITED STATES.

315

Syllabus.

N'ashville 1R. R. Co., and Blythe v Hincley, stpra. This being
the case, it is obvious that on this record either the motion to
dismiss must be allowed or the motion to affirm granted, and
that the allowance of the one or the granting of the other as
a practical question will have the like effect, to finally dispose
The question then is, To which of the
of this controversy
motions should the decree which we are to render respond 2 As
this is a case governed by the principles controlling writs of
error to state courts, it follows that the Federal question upon
which the jurisdiction depends is also the identical question
upon which the merits depend, and therefore the unsubstantiality of the Federal question for the purpose of the motion to dismiss and its unsubstantiality for the purpose of the
motion to affirm are one and the same thing, that is, the two
questions are therefore absolutely co6terminous. Hence, in reason, the denial of one of the motions necessarily involves the
denial of the other, and hence also one of the motions cannot
be allowed except upon a ground which also would justify the
allowance of the other. Under this state of the case (there being of course no inherently Federal question, Swafford v Templeton, suit,) we think the better practice is to cause our decree
to respond to the question which arises first in order for decision, that is, the motion to dismiss, and therefore
The wr' of errort8 dismessed.

FIDELITY AND DEPOSIT COMPANY OF MARYLAND v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.

No. 381. Submitted October 31,1902.-Decided December 1, 1902.
1. Thins court has already sustained the power of the Supreme Court of the
District of Columbia to adopt a rule providing that if the plaintiff or his
agent shall file an affidavit in any action arising ex contractu setting out
distinctly his cause ofaction, etc., and serve the defendant with copies
thereof and of the declaration, he shall be entitled to judgment unless the
defendant shall file, along with his plea, if in bar, an affidavit of defence

