OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Statement of the Case.

CALDWELL v. NORTH CAROLINA.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NORTH CAROLINA.
No.-54. Argued October 22, 1902.-Decided January 12, 1903.
An ordinance passed by the board of aldermen of the city of Greensboro,
North Carolina, in pursuance of powers conferred by the legislature of the
State, that every person engaged in the business of selling or delivering
picture frames, pictures, photographs or likenesses -of the human face in
the city of Greensboro, whether an order for the same shall have been
previously taken or not, shall pay a license tax of ten dollars for each
year, is an attempt to interfere with, and to regulate commerce, and as
such is invalid as to an agent of X corporation residing out of the State.
Where a portrait-company, carrying on business in one State obtains orders
through an agent in another State for pictures and frames, the fact that
in filling the orders it ships the pictures and frames in separate-packages,
for convemence in packing an& handling, to its own agent, who -places
the pictures in their proper places or frames and delivers them to the persons ordering them, does not deprive the transaction of its character of
interstate commerce or take it. out of the salutary protection of the cominerce clause of the Federal Constitution.

June term, 1900, of the Superior Court of Guilford Countyr
State of North Carolina, E. M. Caldwell was tried before a
court and jury for an alleged offence in having engaged'in the
business of delivering pictures without having first obtained a
license so to do. The jury found a special verdict as follows
"The business mentioned-in the ordinance following- is not-named in the charter of the city, other thac in the above section.
"That theIfollowing is an ordinance duly passed by the board
of aldermen of the city of Greensboro under and by virtue of
the foregoing section of said charter, and prior to any of the
orders being taken
"' Be it ordained by the board of- aldermen of the city of
Greensboro, North Carolina
"'That every person -engaged in the business of selling or
delivering picture frames, pictures,.photogrq)hs or likenesses of
the human face, in the city of Greensboro, whether an order
AT

CALDWELL ):.
NORTH CAROLINA.
Statement of the Case.

for the same shall have been previously taken or not, unless the
said business is carried on by the same person in connection
with some other business for which a license has already been
paid to the city, shall pay a license tax of ten dollars for each
year.
"' Any person engaging in said business without having paid
the license tax required herein, shall be fined twenty dollars,
and-each and every sale or delivery shall constitute a separate
and distinct offence.'
"That neither the defendant, The Chicago Portrait Company,
nor any of the employ~s of the Chicago Portrait Company, have
paid the city any license tax.
"If, upon the foregoing facts, the court shall be of opimon
that the defendant is guilty, the jury say that he is guilty, otherwise they say that he is not guilty
, 1900, the defendant, being
"That on the - day of employed by the Chicago Portrait Company, a foreign corporation, of Chicago, Ill., came to Greensboro for the purpose of
delivering certain pictures and frames for which contracts of
sale had previously been made by other employCs of the Chicago
Portrait Company, who had preceded the defendant in Greensboro;
"That the defendant went to the Southern Railway freight
station and took therefrom large packages-of pictures and frames
which had been shipped to Greensboro, N. C., addressed to the
Chicago Portrait Company, carried these packages to the rooms
of the defendant in the Woods House, a-hotel in the city of
Greensboro, and there broke the bulk, placing said pictures in
their proper frames and from this point, delivered the-pictures
one at a time to the purchasers in the city of Greensboro,
"The defendant had.been engaged in this work two days when
arrested,
"That section 57 of the charter of the city of Greensboro,
N. C., is as follows
"'That in addition to the suijects listed for taxation,. the
aldermen may levy a tax on the following subjects, the amount
of which taxed, when fixed, shall be collected by the collector
'of taxes, and if it be not paid on demand, the same may be re-

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opimon of the Court.

covered by suit, or the articles upon which the tax is Imposed,
or any other property of the owner may be forthwith distrained
and sold to satisfy the same, namely
"' 2.1. *Uponall subjects taxed under Schedule B, chapter one
hundred and thirty-six, Laws of North Carolina, session of one
thousand eight hundred and eighty-three, not heretofore provided for, shall pay a license or privilege tax of ten dollars.
And the board of aldermen shall t4ave power to impose a li.cense tax on any business carried on in the city of Greensboro,
not before enumerated herein, not to exceed ten dollars a
year."
Upon this special verdict the court adjudged that defendant
was guilty, and sentenced him to pay a fine 'of twenty dollars
and costs of the action. From this judgment the defendant
appealed to the Supreme Court of North Carolina. That court,
Faircloth, C. J., and Clark, J., dissenting, on February 19,1901,
affirmed the judgment of the Superior Court, 127 N. C. 521;
and thereupon the cause was brought to this court by a writ of
error allowed by the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court of
North Carolina.
.Mr Cha les M. Stedman for plaintiff in error. A.r
. 1R.
Plum was with him on the brief.
.Ar Alfred .M. cales for defendant in error.
Mi[. JUSTICE StaRkS, after making the foregoing statement,
delivered the opinion of the court.
It might fairly be contended that, upon the facts found by
the special verdict, the defendant was not guilty of engaging
in the business of delivering pictures without a license, within
the purview of the ordinance in question. But as the Supreme
Court of North Carolina has held otherwise we must accept
that conclusion as a question of construction belonging to that
court. Our task is to determine whether the ordinance, as so
constru~d, is invalid as an attempt to interfere with and to regulate interstate commerce, and can be speedily performed, for

-CALDWELL v. NORTH CAROLINA.
Opimon of the Court.

we think the case falls within previous decisions of this court on
this subject.
Such decisions are numerous, but we do not deem it necessary
to refer to but a few of them.
The subject was -elaborately considered in Rob7nn v Skelby
Tamng _Dm'&wt, 120 U. S. 489. The case was brought here on
a writ of error to the Supreme Court of Tennessee, which had
held valid a statute of that State, by which it was enacted that.
"all drummers and all persons not having a regular licensed
house of business in the taxing district, offering for sale or selling goods, wares, or merchandise therein by sample, shall be
required to pay to the county trustee- the sum of $10 per week,
or $25 per month, for such privilege, and no license shall be
issued for a longer period than three months." Robbins, the
plaintiff m error, was a citizeif and resident of the city of Cincmnati, Ohio, and was convicted of having offered for sale articles of merchandise belonging to a firm in Cincinnati without'
having procured a license. In his discussion of the ease Mr.
Justice Bradley stated the following principles, as already established by this court The Constitution of the United States,
havinggiven to Congress the power to regulate commerce, not
only with foreign nations, but among the several States, that
power is necessarily exclusive whenever the subjects of it are
national in their character, or admit only of one uniform system or plan of regulation, that where the power of Congress
to regulate is exclusive, the failure of Congress to make express
regulations indicates its will that the subject shall be left free
from any restrictions or impositions, and any regulation of the
subject by the States, except in matters of local concern only,
is repugnant to such freedom, that the only way in which commerce between the States can be legitimately affected by state
laws is when, by virtue of its police power, and its jurisdiction
over persons and property within -its limits, a State provides
for the security of the lives, health and comfort of persons and
the protection of property, and imposes taxes upon persons residing within the State or belonging to its population, and upon
vocations and employments pursued therein, not directly connected with foreign.or interstate commerce, or with some other
VOL. CLXXXVII-40

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the CourL

employment or business exercised under authority of the Constitution and laws of the United States, and imposes taxes upon
all property within the State, mingled with and forming part
of the great mass of property therein, but that, in maling such
internal regulations, a State cannot impose taxes upon persons
passing through the State, or coming into it merely for a temporary purpose, especially if connected with interstate or foreign commerce, nor can it impose such taxes upon property
imported into the State from abroad, or from another State,
and not. bQcome part of the common mass of property therein,
and no discrimination can be made, by such regulations, adversely to the persons or property of other States, and no
regulations can be made directly affecting interstate commerce.
Upon these established principles the conclusion was reached
that the state statute in question was invalid, and the following
observations are pertinent to the question before us
"It would not.be difficult, however, to show that the tax authorized by the State of Tennessee in the present case is discriminative against the merchants and manufacturers of other States.
They can only sell their goods in Memphis by the employment of
drummers and by means of samples, whilst the merchants and
manufacturers of Memphis, having regular licensed houses of
business there, have no occasion for such agents, and, if they had,
they are not subject to any tax therefor. They are taxed for their
licensed houses, it is true, but so, it is presumable, are the merchants and manufacturers of other States in the places where
they reside, and the tax on drummers operates greatly to their
disadvantage in comparison with the merchants and manufacturers of Mbmphis. And such undoubtedly was one of its objects. This kind of taxation is usually imposed at the instance
and solicitation of domestic dealers, as a means of protecting
them from foreign competition. And in many cases there may
be some reason in their desire for such protection. But this
shows in a still stronger light the unconstitutionality of the
tax. It shows that it not only operates as a restriction upon
interstate commerce, but that it is intended to have that effect
as one of its principal objects. And if a State can, in this way,.
impose restrictions upon interstate commerce for the benefit and

CALDWELL v. NORTH CAROLINA.
Opimon of the Court.

protection of its own citizens we are brought back to the condition of things which existed before the adoption of- the Constitution, and which was one of the principal causes which led
to it.
"If. the selling of goods by sample and the employment of
drummers for that purpose, injuriously affect the local interest
of the States, Congress, if applied to, will undoubtedly make
such reasonable regulations as the case may demand. And
Congress alone can do it, for it is obvious that such regulations should be based on a uniform system applicable to the
whole country, and not left to the varied, discordant, or retaliatory enactments of forty different States. The confusion
into which the commerce of the country would be thrown by
being subject.to state legislation on this subject, would be but
a repetition of the disorder which prevailed under the Articles
of Confederation."
Aher v. Texa8, 128 U. S. 129, was a case where a state statute required from "every commercial traveler, drummer, salesman, or solicitor of trade, by sample or otherwise, an annual
occupation tax," and such legislation was declared inoperative, so far as it affected one soliciting orders for a business
house in another State. The same doctrine was held in
Sloutenurgh v Henmele, 129 U. S. 141, in the case of an agent
of a Maryland business house soliciting orders in the District
of Columbia without having taken out a license as required by
an act of the legislative assembly, of the District of Columbia.
In Lyng v Xichugan, 135 U. S. 161, the general proposition
was repeated
"We have repeatedly held that no State has the right to lay
a tax oi interstate commerce in any form, whether by way of
dutie laid on the transportation of the subjects of that commerce, or on the receipts derived from that transportation, or
on the occupation or business of carrying it on, for the reason
that such taxation is a burden on that commerce, and. amounts
to a regulation of it, which belongs solely to Congress."
In Crutolterv Jentucky, 141 U S. 47; an act of the State of
Kentucky, which forbade the agent of an express company, not
incorporated by the laws of that State, from carring on basi-

OCTOBER TERI, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

ness without first obtaining a license from the State, was held
to be a regulation of commerce and invalid. Mr. Justice Bradley, speaking for the court, said
"The character of police regulation, claimed for the requirements of the statute m question, is certainly not such as to
give them a controlling force over the regulations of interstate
commerce which may have been expressly or impliedly adopted
by Congress, or such as to exempt them from nullity when
xepugnant to the exclusive power given to Congress in relation
to that commerce. This is abundantly shown by the decisions
to which we have already referred, which are clear to the effect
that neither licenses nor indirect taxation of any kind, nor any
system of state regulation, can be imposed upon interstate any
more than upon foreign commerce, and that all acts of legislation producing any such result are, to that extent, unconstitutional and void."
In Brennan v. Tituvville, 153 U. S. 289, was again presented
the question of the validity of an ordinance providing "That
all persons canvassing or soliciting, within the city of Titusville, orders for goods, books, paintings, wares or merchandise
of any kind, or persons delivering such articles unler orders so
obtained or solicited, shall be required to procure from the
mayor a license to transact said business, and shall pay to the
treasurer therefor certain sums, according to the time for which
said licenses shall be granted," and also prescribing a penalty
for failing to procure such license. An agreed statement of
facts showed that Shepard was a manufacturer of picture
frames and maker of portraits, residing in Chicago in the State
of Illinois, of which State he was a citizen, and in which State
he had his manufactory and place of business, that in the
prosecution of his business he employed agents, who, under
his directions, solicited orders for pictures and picture frames
in the State of Pennsylvania aiid in other States of the Union,
by going personally to residents and citizens of said State of
Pennsylvania and other States, and exhibiting samples of his
pictures and frames, going, when necessary, from house to
house, that Brennan was an agent of the said Shepard, employed by him to travel and solicit orders for pictures and

OALDWELL v. N0oRTH CAROLITA.
Opinion of the Court.

frames, upon a salary, that upon receiving orders for pictures
and picture frames, the agents of Shepard forwarded the same
to him at Chicago, where the goods were made, and from there
shipped to the purchasers in Titusville by railroad freight and
express, and the price of said goods was collected and forwarded by the express companies and sometimes by the agents
to said Shepard at Chicago, that Brennan, the agent employed
by Shepard, was engaged in conducting the business in the
manner stated, at the time of his arrest, and acting solely for
Shepard.
Upon such a state of facts, and upon a review of the cases,
this court held it was not bound by the decision of the highest
court of the State in which such a tax was authorized and
imposed that such a tax was an exercise of the police power,
and not of the taxing power, and that the ordinance in question imposed -a tax upon interstate commerce, and was therefore void. To the argument that no discrimination was made
in the ordinance between domestic and foreigndrimmers, the
court said
"It is strongly urged, as if it were a material point in the
case, that no discrimination is made between domestic and foreign drummers-those of Tennessee and those of other States;
that all are taxed alike. But that does not meet the difficulty.
Interstate commerce cannot be taxed at all, even though the
same amount of tax should be laid on domestic commerce, or
that which is carried on solely within the State. This was decided in the case of The &ate J-'eighzt Tax, 15 Wall. 232. The
negotiation of. sales of goods which are in another State, for. the
purpose of introducing them into the State in which the negotiation is made, is interstate commerce. A New Orleans merchant cannot be taxed there for ordering goods from London
or New York, because,.in the one case, it is an act of foreign,
and in the other of interstate commerce, both of which are subject to regulation by Congress alone."
The last case we shall cite is the recent one of Sockard v.
.fo'gan, 185 U. S. 27, where was considered the validity ot a

statute of the State of Tennessee providing for the collection
of a privilege tax on the occupation of merchandise brokers.

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

By agreement of the parties two questions only were argued in
the state court (1) whether or not the complainants, who had
filed a bill to restrain the collection of the tax, were merchandise
brokers and subject by the statute to tax as such, (2) whether
or not their business constituted interstate commerce, and therefore was beyond the reach of. the State's taxing power. The
state Supreme Court held that the complainants, as merchandise brokers, were within the meaning of the statute, and that
the tax was a valid one under the Constitution of the United
States.
This court, though recognizing that it was obliged to accept
the construction put upon the statute by the state court, reversed
the judgment of that court m respect to the nature of the commerce as interstate., In the opinion of the court, delivered by
Mr. Justice Peckham, the principal cases beginning with Brown
v .Maryland,12 Wheat. 419, and ending with Brennan v Titu'ville, were again reviewed, and the conclusions there reached
were affirmed.
The state Supreme Court endeavored to distinguish the present case .from that of Brennan v. Titusville, in the following
observations:
"The defendant insists that Brennan v Titusvile is directly
in pomt-is, in every essential fact,,this case-and should control the opinion of the court on this appeal. And it is in many
respects like this case, but there is one material difference between that case and this, which marks th6 distinction. In that
case, the goods were shipped directly to the purchaser. In this
case, they were shipped by the Chicago company to itself in the
city of Greensboro, and when they reached Greensboro, the
defendant as the agent of the Chicago company received them
from the railroad at its depot, carried them to its room in
Greensboro, opened the boxes in which they were shipped, took
out the pictures and picture frames, assorted them and put them
together, and delivered them to the purchasers in the city of
Greensboro, and had been engaged in this work two days when
arrested. If they had been completed and shipped directly to
the parties for whom they were intended, this case would have
fallen within the decision of Brennan v Titusville, and we

CALDWELL v. NORTH CAROLINA.
Opinion of the Court.

should hold, as it was held there, that it was an interference
with interstate commerce, and that the defendant was not guilty
But to our minds there is a decided difference between this case
and that. The contract to make and deliver these pictures was
an executory contract, and no title passed by this contract. If
they had been completed in Chicago, and under contract shipped
to the purchaser, the title would have passed to the consignee
upon delivery to the railroad in Chicago-the railroad being
deemed to be the agent of the consignee, and B'ennan v Titusville would have applied, as the tax would have been upon the
commerce.\ But, instead of completing the pictures in Chicago
and shipping them to the parties who had -contracted for them,
they were shipped to themselves, ' The Chicago Portrait Company,' in Greensboro. This being so no title ever passed from
the Chicago Portrait Company, until the pictures were put in
the frames and delivered by the defendant. These pictures belonged to the Chicago company when they were shipped from
Chicago, and belopged to it when they got to Greensboro. And
the question is, 'ould the Chicago Portrait Company, because.
it was a foreign corporation, engage in the business of completing these pictures, and in s6lling and delivering them in Greensboro, withou4 becoming liable to a city tax, for which its
own citizens would be liable. It seems to us that it could
not."
We are not persuaded by this reasoning. It seems to proceed
upon two propositions-first, that the pictures in question were
not completed before they were brought to Greensboro, and,
second, that the articles were not shipped directly to the purchasers, %butto an agent of the sender in Greensboro.
But it certainly cannot be pretended that, if the pictures and
the disconnected frames had been directly shipped to the purchasers, the license tax could have been imposed, either on the
vendor out of the State or on the purchaser within the State.
If the pictures and- the frames intended for them had, been
shipped directly to the purchasers, whether in the same or separate packages, such a transaction would, beyond question, be
interstate commerce beyond the reach of the taxing power of
the State. It is too plain for argument that the supposed in-

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

complete condition of articles of commerce, if shipped directly
to the purchasers, cannot subject them to the license tax.
But we are not disposed to concede that, under the facts of
this case, the pictures were, in any proper sense, incomplete
when received in Greensboro. That the frames and the pictures were in separate packages, if such was the case, was merely
for convenience in packing and handling, and "placing the pictures in their-proper places," (the language of the verdict,)
meant that each picture was placed in the frame designed for it.
The selection of the frame was as much a part of the purchase
and'sale as the selection of the picture.
Nor does the fact that these articles were not shipped separately and directly to each individual purchaser, but were sent
to an agent of, the vendor at Greensboro, who delivered them to
the purchasers, deprive the transaction of its character as interstate commerce. It w-as only -that.the vendor used two instead
of one agency in the delivery It would seem evident that, if
the vendor had sent the articles by an express company, which
-ahoul" collect on delivery, such a mode of delivery would not
have subjected the transaction to state taxation. The same
could be said if the vendor himself, or by a personal agent, had
carried and delivered the goods to the purchaser, That the articles were sent as freight by rail and were received at the railroad station by an agent who delivered them to the respective
purchasers, in nowise changes the character of the commerce as
interstate.
Transactions between manufacturing companies in one State,
through agents, with citizens of another constitute a large part
of interstate commerce, and for us to hold, with the court below, that the same articles, if sent by rail directly to the purchaser, are free from -state taxation, but if sent to an agent
to deliver, are taxable through a license tax upon the agent,
would evidently take a considerable portion of such traffic out
of the salutary protection of the interstate commerce clause of
the Constitution.
It cannot~escape'observation that efforts to control commerce
of this kind, in the interest of the States where the purchasers
reside, have been frequently made in the form of statutes and

CALDWELL v. NORTH CAROLINA.

633

Opinion of the Court.

municipal ordinances, but that such efforts have been heretofore
rendered fruitless by the supervising action of this court. The
cases hereinbefore cited disclose the truth of this observation.
Upon principle and authority, therefore, we conclude that the.
judgment of the Supreme Court of North Carolina should be
and is
Reversed, and the eause is remanded to that court to take farthe rp'oceedings not monsttent with th opmon.

