YOUNG WOMEN'S CHRISTIAN HOME u. FRENCH. 401
Syllabus.

they yet lost them because they did not foresee that that officer
would, without notice, proceed to -distribute the money to the
wrong persons and upon a basis which the government now,
whether advisedly or not I need not consider, declares to have
been absolutely unjust and illegal.
I am authorized by MR. JUSTICE MOKENNA to say that he
jois in ths dissent.

YOUNG WOMEN'S CHRISTIAN HOME v. FRENCH.
FAUL v. FRENCH.
APPEALS FROM THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF

COLUMBIA.
Nos. 73, 74. Argued November 5, 6,1902.-Decided January 5, 1903.

By her last will and testament Mrs. Sophia Rhodes provided for her husband by securing to him the income from one half her estate, subject to
which the whole was devised and bequeathed to her only son,, in the
event of her son's predecease, the entire estate to trustees in trust for
the husband for life, and on his death to the Young Women's Christian
Hbme, in the event testatrix survived husband and son, thenrto the
Home. The mother and son survived the husband, and perished in a
shipwreck, going down together. The estate was claimed by the next.
of kin of Mrs. Rhodes; by the next of kIn of the son; and by the Young
Women's Christian Home. Reld
"(1) That there is no presumption of survivorship in the case of those
who perish by a common disaster, in the absence of proof tending
to show the order in which dissolution took place, and, actual
survivorship being unascertainable, descent and distribution take
the same course as'if the deaths had been simultaneous.
(2) Whether by a particular will a condition precedent, a condition subsequent, or a conditional limitation iSimposed, is, in the absence
of unmistakable language, matter of construction, arrived at in
view of the familiar rules that the intention of the testator must.
prevail, and that intestacy should be prevented, if legally possible.
(3)As the state of facts at the time of Mrs. Rhodes' death did not substantially differ from what the will showed she contemplated when
VOL. OLXXXvII-26

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Statement.of the Case.
it was executed, the interpolation. of some phrase covering the
contingency of inability to ascertain survivorship is unnecessary,
and her intention as sufficiently declared on the whole will may
be carried into effect.
(4) The use of the words, "if she survived," instead of the words, "if
they did not survive," is not material, and, on principle, the estate
of Mrs. Rhodes should go as directed as if she survived her son, in
the absence of proof to the contrary. The property remained
where it was vested, there being no evidence that it had been
divested.
THESE

are appeals from a decree of the Court of Appeals of

the District of Columbia on a bill of mterpleader exhibited m
the Supreme Court of the District by the administrators with
the will annexed of the estate of Sophia Rhodes, deceased.
At the conclusion of the administration there remained in the
hands of the administrators a fund of $14,891.89 for distribution, which was claimed by the Young Women's Christiai
Home, a corporation of the District of Columbia, created by
act of Congress, the next of kin of Sophia Rhodes, and the
administrator of the estate of Eugene Rhodes, deceased, and
the mnterpleader was filed to determine the rights of the parties.
The will of Sophia Rhodes was executed at Washington,
May 10, 1894, and read as follows
"In the name of the bountiful Giver of all. Amen.
"1, Sophia Rhodes, of the city of Hutchinson, m the State of
Kansas, temporarily residing at Washington, in the District of
Columbia, being now .of sound and disposing mind and memory,
do make, publish and declare this my last will and testament,
hereby revoking all former wills or testamentary dispositions
of my property
"I now dispose of the property and estate which it has
pleased Alnhighty God to intrust to me, as follows, viz.
s.'.I will that all my just debts and funeral ex"1mpr
penses shall be paid by my executor hereinafter named, out of
the first money from my estate that shall come into his hands.
"_Bem 1. I give,, devise and bequeath unto my husband
Oliver Wheeler Rhodes, during his life one half (1) of the income from all my properties and estate in the next following
item of this last will and testameilt disposed of, to be paid

YOUNG WOMEN'S CHRISTIAN HOME v. FRENCH. 403
Statement of-the Case.

over to him from time to time by my executor hereinafter
named, who, for this purpose, shall also act as trustee.
"I1em 2. I now give, devise and bequeath unto my only
and beloved son, Eugene Rhodes, all my property, real, personal and mixed, of whatsoever nature, kind or description, including moneys, credits and evidences of indebtedness of which
I may be possessed at the time of my death, to be 'his absolutely, to hold and to dispose of as unto him may seem good
and proper, and subject only to the provisions of item 1 of this
last will and testament.
"Item 3. In the event of the death of my son, Eugene
Rhodes, before the decease either of myself or of my husband,
I then give, devise and bequeath all my property, everything I
own on earth, as follows, viz. _
"1st. I give, devise and bequeath all my pictures and paintings to the Young-Women's Christian Home, m the city of
Washington, District of Columbia. It is my will that the said
pictures -and paintings- may, so long as the said home shall
exist, be the ornaments of the said home, with my name us the
giver connected with them during that time.
"2d. All the rest and residue of my property, real, personal
and mixed, I give, devise and bequeath to Mcchael H. Fitch, of
Pueblo, Coloiado, to have and to hold, in trust nevertheless, to
invest the same to the best of his knowledge and experience,
and to pay over the rents and profits arising therefrom to my
husband, Oliver Wheeler Rhodes, during his, my said husband's
life, aid on the death of my said husband to turn over the said
property, moneys, etc:, with whatsoever accumulation thereon
may.be existing, to the Young Women's Christian Home, of
Washington, in the District of Columbia, to be the property
of the said home absolutely
"Iem 4. In the event of my becoming the survivor of both
my husband, Oliver Wheeler Rhodes, and of my son, Eugene
Rhodes, I then give, devise and bequeath all my property, real,
personal and mixed, of whatsoever nature, kind or description,
to the Young Women's Christian Home, of the city of Washington, in the District of Columbia, to have and to hold the
same absolutely and forever, for the good of that institution.

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Statement of the Case.

It is my will that my pictures and paintings shall be disposed
of in ths event as provided in paragraph 1st, of item 3, of thins
last will and testament.
"Latly. I hereby constitute and appoint my only son,
Eugene Rhodes, the sole executor and trustee of this my last
will and t 6stament, 'and it is my will that my said sole executor and trustee shall administer and execute this last will and
testament without giving bond therefor."
The'facts were stipulated, and may be shortly stated thus:
Oliver Wheeler Rhodes died at Washington, January 27, 1895,
at which time his wife, Sophia Rhodes, and their only child,
Eugene Rhodes, were in Heidelberg, Germany They sailed
for home Trom Bremen on the steamship Elbe at three o'clock
P. m. on Tuesday, January 29, 1895.

About half-past five

o'clock the next morning the Elbe collided with another steamship, and sank in about twenty minutes after the collision.
Mrs. Rhodes was about fifty-two years old, corpulent, and
short of breath, and her son was about twenty-three years old,
a single man, and rathdr a good swimmer. His body came up
in a fishing net off the coast of Holland some six weeks after
the collision, but his mother's body was never recovered. Of
the persons who survived the shipwreck, only two had any
knowledge of the mother and son at the time of the disaster.
One of them saw Mrs. Rhodes come out of her cabin just after
the collision with a blanket over her night dress, and some
minutes later saw her son. The other saw the mother and son
on deck after the collision, the son endeavoring to put a shawl
around his mother, and she with her arms thrown around her
son's neck. This person was the last to get into the last boat
to leave the ship, and, when it had gotten some distance away,
the ship went down with a 4urch and every one on board was
drowned. He testified that "both of these parties died together, and, so far as this affiant was able to learn, after he
saw these parties on the deck clasped in an embrace that would
never be loosened until after death, no one else saw them. '
The Supreme Court of the District held that there was no
presumption of survivorship-as between the mother and son;.
that the will manifested an unmistakable desire to guard

YOUNG WOMEN'S CHRISTIAN HOME v. FRENCH. 405
Argument for Appellant, Young Women's Christian Home.

against intestacy, and that the intention of Mrs. Rhodes was
clearly apparent that if her husband and son should not survive her so as to receive the property, or if it remained under
her control at the time of her death, it should go absolutely to
the charity she had named, the Young Women's Christian
Home, and decreed accordingly
From this decree Barbara
Faul and Andrew Wasner, next of Ian of Mrs. Rhodes, and
John L. French, administrator of Eugene Rhodes,-carried the
case to the Court of Appeals of the District, which concurred
in the view that there was no presumption of survivorship as
between the testatrix and her son, but held that the terms of
the will "vesting, the estate m Eugene Rhodes immediately
upon testatrix's death, we agree that it raises a pnm.acte
right in the personal representatives of the son, and imposes
the burden upon her next of kIn of displacing them by proof
of his mother's survival," and that the representatives and
next of kin of the son were entitled to the entire fund. The
decree was thereupon reversed, and the cause remanded to the
court below with a direction to enter a decree in conformity
with that conclusion. 18 App. D. C. 9..
.MrJ J .Darlington,with whom was .Mr John B. .aTnr
on the brief, for the appellant the defendant in error, the
Young Women's Christian Home
The facts relied upon by which to uphold his contention
that as Eugene Rhodes was younger than his mother, as well
as the stronger and a good swimmer he should be presumed
to have survived are insufficient under the common law to
create any presumption upon which the courts can act, and
in the absence of evidence mother and son will be presumed to have died simultaneously., citing English authorities as follows Bradshaw v Toumlin, 2 Dick. 633, TFrzght v
.Samada, 2 Phill. 261, S. C., 2 Salk. 593; Satoerthwaste v
Powell, 1 Curt. Ece. Rep. 105; Durant v .Fiend,5 De G. &
Sm. 343, Barnett v. Tugwell, 31 Beav 232, Underwood. v
Wing, 19 Beav 459, S. C., sub nomuze, Wing v. Angrave, 8 H.
L. C. 183, In re Wainwrsght, 1 Sw & Tr. 257, In re Ewart, 1
Sw & Tr. "58, In re Wheeler, 31 L. J. P & M. 40, and

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Argument for Appellant, Young Women's Christian Home.

American authorities as follows In re Ridgway, 4 Redf.
226, Stinde v Goodrwh, 3 Redf. 87, Newell v. Nichols, 12
Hun, 604, affirmed 75 N. Y 78, In re Hall, 9 Cent. L. J
281, Johnson v Jerithew, 80 Maine, 111, 116, Cowman v.
Rogers, 73 Maryland, 403, M7de's Estate, 73 Wisconsin, 445,
459-460, In re Willbor, 20 R. I. 126.
Citing also where the testator and beneficiary having perished together, the property was distributed as that of the owner
at the time of the common disaster, Taylor v Diblock, 2 Phill.
Eccl. Rep, 261, Afason v .Aason, 1 Meriv. 308, Goods of .furray, 1 Ecc. Rep. 596 ,. Doe dem. nsght v Hepean, 27 E. C. L.
45, and in cases. of intestacy, where a similar rule had been
followed as to intestate and heir, Johnson v ]ierithew,80 ]Maine,
116, Bhle's Estate, 73 Wisconsin, 445, Russell v Hallett, 23
Kansas, 196-7, Coye v Leach, 8 Mete. -375 ; iS'chaub v. Grz.//in,
84 Maryland, 562, 566, Satterthwaite v Powell, 1 Curt. Ecc.
Rep. 705, In re TVilbor, 20 R. I. 126.
Also citing on other points, Wollaston v Berkeley, L. R. 2
Ch. Div. 213, Sfcrutton v Patillo,L. R. 19 Eq. 369; 24 Am. &
Eng. Ency 1027-32. As stated in Newell v. Nichols, 12 Hun5
604, affirmed 75 N. Y 78, "when a testator means to dispose
of all his property, and uses the words ' if the legatee should
not survive,' it is held to mean ' if the preceding legacy should
from any cause fail,"' citing Avelyn v Ward, 1 Ves. Sr. 419,
Rickman v .forgan, 2 Brown's Chancery Cases, 396, Jones v.
Westcombe, 1 Eq. Abbt. 245, Poster v Cooke, 3 Brown's Ch. 347;
Doo v Brabant,3 Bro. C. C. 397, Taylor v. Taylor, A. & R.
386, Jackson em dem. Beach v Durland, 2 Johns. Cas. 314.
-The intention is to be carried into effect, where apparent, although expressions must be discarded or modified to effectuate
that purpose, and the testator must not be presumed to have
died intestate if possible. Towns v Wentworth, 11 M. P C. 520;
-Abbottv _fiddleton, 7 H. L. Cas. 68, . C., 21 Beav. 143, I/ston v Jenkns, 2 W Va. 62, and cases cited, Cox v. Britt, 22
Arkansas, and cases cited, Chapman v. Brown, Burr. 1635,
Lord Mansfield, XfcKeekan, v Wilson, 53 Penn. St. 74, Redfield on Wills, 454, note 1, Jarman on Wills, 456, 414, Cap. 17;.
Anliek v Wallace, 12 Bush, 531, citing numerous authorities;

YOUNG WOMEN'S CHRISTIAN HOME 7,.FRENCH. 407
Argument for Appellants, Faul et aL.

iceklem, 6
In re Redfern, 6 Oh. Div. 133, Doe dem. Leach v
East, 486, B.atherly v. Eath ly, 1 Cold. 461, Freeman v -Freeman, 8 Vin. Abr. tit. Devise, 51, Seesoms v. Sessoms, 2 Dev &
3. 453, Perry on Trusts, see. 724, -Yey v -Yey, 4 De G. M. &
G. 73, Pearsoll v._Sim8son, 15 Yes. 29, Robsor v Portland
Orphan,.Asylum, 1"23 U. S. 702, Smith v. Bell, 6 Pet. 68, 80,
Patch v. White, 117 U. S. 210, In re Swenson's Est., 55 Minnesota, 300., Yates v Skern,.84 Minnesota, 165, fetcaf v
.FTramnnghamr Pansh,128"Massachusetts, 370, 374, Finley v
.Khg's Lessee, 3 Pet. 377, -also citing and distinguishing 1ilinois LanaZ -Co. v. Bonner,-75 Illinois, 317, Gibson v Seymour,
102 Indiana, 485,; Rupp v Eberly, 79 Pa. St. 141.
That under the principles of construction governing wills,
and -especially the principle which subordinates the letter to
the plain intention, to be gathered from the testator's standpoint and from the four corners of the instrument, the Young
Women's Christian Home is the party intended by the will of
Mrs. Rhodes, under the circumstances which have. occurred,
to receive her estate, and that the principle deducible from
the authorities upon the subject is, that, under the English
law, the estate of the person so dying is to be administered as
though he, as to that estate, was the survivor, and that the estate of Mrs. Rhodes is-accordingly to be so administered.
-H' A. A. Hoehling, Jr., on behalf of Barbara Faul et al.,
next of kin of the mother, appellants, and whose contentions
were opposed to those of the Young Women's Christian Home.
I. It is not permissible under the guise of construction to
incorporate distinct provisions into a will, nor to insert therein
conditions or contingencies not provided for by the testatrix.
Redfield on Wills, vol. 1, 4th ed. par. 33-1, pp. 458-472; Roper
on Legacies, vol. 1, p. 750, 2 Roper on Legacies, 1464, 2 Redfield on Wills, 283, Wing v Uderwood, 4 De G.21. & G. 633,
654, Wing v Angrave,. 8 H. L. 205; Illinots 1and Co. v Bonner, 75 Illinois, 317, Gibson v Seymour, 102 Indiana, 485;
.Runp v.Eberly, 79 Penn. St. 141.
H. The will of the testatrix does not show an intent that

OCTOBER TERM,

1902.

Argument for Appellee.

the Home should receive her entire estate, save only in the
event of the substantial survivorship of the son.
III. The authorities cited by counsel for the Home are not

in point. Finley v King's Lessee, 3 Peters, 346, Clark v.
Boormam's ]xrs., 18 Wall. 493, Colton v. Colton, 127 U. S.
300, Lee v Simpson, 134 U. S. 572, Bobzson v. Orphan Asylum, 123 U S. 702, .fetcalfv FraminghamParsh,128 Massachusetts, 370,.374, cited and distinguished.
IV Where two or more persons perish in a common disaster,
and the order of their deaths is unascertainable by evidence,
there is no legal presumption of survivorship in favor of any
such persons, and iin such case property rights are disposed of
as if death had, occurred to all at the same time. Citing cases
on brief of other appellant, and The King v. ftay, 1 Win.
Cased, 1 Ourteis, 596; Satterthwaite v.
Black. 640, .urray8
Silleck
v Booth, Younge & Collyer Oh.
705.
PoweZ, 1 Curteis,
Rep. 121, In re Selwyn, 3 Hagg. Eccl. Rep. 748, 6ited and distinguished.
Mr f-W Smith and _M. Wihliam Henry Denns on behalf
of the administrator of Eugene Rhodes, the son, appellee.
In whatever way the matter may be reasoned out, whether
by choosing among the three contingencies possible-that the
mother, the son, or neither, survived the other-or by passing
those contingencies by as unascertamable and seeking ground
beyond for prma faese right, the result must be the affirmance of the- decisign appealed from, for, if the former course
be followed, the son's survivorship must be found as a fact,
and if the latter be followed, every other ground for przma
fa¢w right must be deemed secondary and subordinate to that
of the, unextinguished and unextinguishable preference made
by the will-and the law in the sc'is favor.
The evidence was sufficient to show that the son survived
his' mother by reason of his better size, stronger sex and the
nature of his clothing, he was better able to withstand the
death cause, his knowing now to swim would ward off despair
and dollapse and give him self-possession to look out for wreckage and keeping afloat, his younger and warmer blood would

YOUNG WOMEN'S CHRISTIAN HOME r FRENCH. 409
Argument for Appellee.

stand him in good stead m the icy waters of the North sea;
"when shipwreck occurs men are more apt to be saved than women.
Persons with apoplectic tendencies (the mother
was corpulent and short winded) are more apt to be struck
with the disease when precipitated into the water." Wharton
and Still, Med. Fur. § 726. Of 60 women and 'M children on
the Elbe only one woman survived, only one woman out of 176
was saved on the Burgoyne, not a woman or child was saved
on the Atlantic.
Where rested the fatal onus at the start 2 As between the
Home as legatee, and testatrix's next of kn-if not her son,
then her brother and sister. The next of kin having apma
facze right, the onusprobandiis on the other party
In such cases the common law requires evidence from start
to finish, judgment going in the end, if there be not evidence
enough to shift tte burden of proof, against the party resting
under that burdin at the start.
Neither a codemise nor a survivorship is presumed by law,
nor is the evidence such cases admit of sufficient to shift the
burden of proof.
As between a testator's next of kin and his legatee, the burden rests on the legatee of proving the contingency or contingencies that underlie his bequest, the next of kin having prma
fac right at the start, or, as applied to the cases at bar, the
burden lies on the Home of proving codermse or the mother's
survival (s. e. the son's non-survival), the next of kin, whoever
they were, having prrnafacze right.
Citing pany of the authorities on appellants' briefs and also
Best's Ev. Book 1II, pt. 1, 369, Balder v kliddeke, 92 Ill. App.
227, Greenleaf on Evidence, 16th ed. note 5, § 30, p. 126, Hildebrant v. Apme-, Texas Ct. of Appeals, 1901, 66 S. W 128,
Onmany v SkXlbwelt, 23 Beav. 330.
In the construction of the will the most natural intention
was that the property .was not to be willed away from the son
at all unles he was no longer in being to take it at his mother's
death, and the real question is not whether the son survived
any length of time, but where the burden rests of proving the
order of deaths. The claim of the Home draws its strength,

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

not so much from what w- in the will as from what, judging
from this post-mortem statement, ought to be there.
As to who are the next of kin, the onus rests on the remoter
kin to prove that all the nea'er kin once -known to exist had
ceased to exist before the testator's death. Enerson v. TVkite,
29 N. H. 482, Schaub v Grtffln, 84: Maryland, 557, Posey v.
Hanson, 10 D. C. App. 496, Wharton's Ev sec. 1280, Cowman
v. Rogers, 73 Maryland, 403. Other cases cited in opposing
briefs distinguished.
MR. CHIMEF JusTICE FULLER, aftei making the foregoing statement, delivered the opinion of the court.

The rule is that there is no presumption of survivorship in
the case of persons who perish by a common disaster, in the
absence of proof tending to show the order of dissolution, and
that circumstances surrounding a calamity of the character
appearing on this record are insufficient to create any presumption on which the courts can act, The question of actual survivorship" is regarded as unascertainable, and descent and
distribution take the same course as if the deaths had been
simultaneous. Underwood v Wing, 4 IDe Gex, M. & G. 633,
Wing v. Angrave, 8 H. L. Cas. 183, .Newell v. Nichols, 12
Hun, 604, S. C., 75 N. Y 78, Johnson v Merithew, 80 Maine,
,11, Cowman v Rogers, 73 Maryland, 403, Russell v .Hallett,
23 Kansas, 276, In re Willbor, 20 R. I. 126, 1 Greeni.
(15th ed.) §§ 29, 30.
Conceding this to be so, the next of kn of Mrs. Rhodes contend that her estate has passed to them as in case of intestacy,
because it dbes not appear that the son survived the mother, or
that the mother survived the son, and the estate was given to
the son only in the one event, and to the Young Women's
Christian Home only in the other. This view was rejected by
the District Supreme Court in holding that the intention of the
testatrix was plain that the Young Women's Christian Home
should take in the event that the husband and son did not survive her, and should be carried out, and the Court of Appeals
rejected it in holding that the will. by its terms vested the

YOUNG WOMEN'S CHRISTIAN HOME v. FRENCH. 411
Opinion of the Court.

estate in Eugene Rhodes immediately on the testatrix's death,
and that a pmmafaaw right existed m the personal representatives of the son, which was not displaced by proof of the
mother's survival.
The cardinal rule is that the intention of the testator expressed in his will, or clearly deducible therefrom, must prevail if consistent with the rules of law And another familiar
rule is that the law prefers a .construction which will prevent
a partial intestacy to one that will permit it, if such a construction may reasonably be given. Zenaday v. Sinnott, 179
U. S. 606, 616.
In this case, we think it is apparent that Mrs. Rhodes
designed to dispose of her entire property, to provide for her
husband by securing to him for life an income from one half of
her estate, to provide for her son by leaving him the estate
absolutely, subject to the husband's income, and, if her son
died before his father, that the husband should have the income
of the whole estate for his life, and at his death the estate
should go to the Young Women's Christian Home. But that
if her husband and son should both be dead when she died, the
estate should go at once to the charitable institution, that is to
say, that if they did not survive her, the property on her death
was immediately to take that destination.
But the argument is that the testatrix's wishes cannot be carned out, inasmuch asit is insisted, each of the devises and bequests was on the express condition of survivorship, and to give
effect to the alleged intention would require the interpolation
of some phrase covering the contingency of inability to ascertain survivorship, which interpolation would be Wholly madmissible.
Tis, however, is matter of construction, and if the state of
facts at the time of Mrs. Rhodes' death did not substantially
differ from what the will shows she contemplated when
it was executed, then no interpolation is required, and the
property must go. according to the intention necessarily deducible.
The applicable principle is well expressed by Mr. Justice

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

Gray, then Chief Justice of Massachusetts, in .Aetcalf v. Fp'amzngham, 128 Massachusetts, 370.
The case is stated in the head notes thus "A testator bequeathed personal property in trust for the benefit of his
wife's sister and her husband during their lives, as follows
During her life, to pay the net income to her semi-annually,
in case she should die before him, to transfer one half of the
principal to a haritable institution, and to p.ty the income of
the 'remainder to him during his life, in case he should die before her, then at her death to transfer the whole of the prmcipal to, the same institution. She died before her husband,
and one half of the principal was paid to the institution and the
other half kept in trust for him. leld, that on his death the
institution was entitled to this part of the principal also, and
that it did not pass to the residuary devisees, although a
similar bequest for the benefit of another husband and wife
contained an express direction for a transfer of the second half
of the principal to the charitable institution upon the death of
the survivor."
Gray, 0. J., said "The decision of this question doubtless
depends upon the intention of the testator, as manifested by the
words that he has used, and an omission to express his intention
cannot be supplied by conjecture. But if a reading of the
whole will produces a conviction- that the testator must necessarily have intedded an interest to be given which is not bequeathed by. express and formal words, the court must supply
the defect -by implication, and so mould the language of the
testator as to carry into effect, as far as possible, the intention
which it is of opinion that he has on the whole will sufficiently
declared."
"It is a question in dach case," said Mr. Justice Matthews
in Robnon -v Portland Orp7an Asylum, 128 U S. 702, "of
the reasonable interpretation of the words of the partcular
will, with the view of ascertaining through their meaning the
testator's intention." In that case Robison left a will providing, thirdly, that his widoiv should have the income of all his
estate, with the right to spend it, but not to have it accumulate
for her heirs, fourthly, that -if his sisters, Ann Smith and

YOUNG WOMEN'S CHRISTIAN HOME. v. FRENCH. 413
Opinion of the Court.

Eleonora Cummings Robison, "be living at the death of myself
and wife, Tane S. Robison aforesaid, that they or the one that
may be then living shall have the income of all my estate so
long as they may live, and at their death to be divided m three
parts, one third part of the income to go to the Portland
Female Orphan Asylum," and one third to each of two other
institutions. Both sisters died before the testator.
It was ruled that the fact that the sisters died before their
brother, "whereby the legacy to them lapsed altogether, is not
material, because if property be limited upon the death of one
person to another, and the first donee happen to predecease
the testator, the gift over would,, of course, take effect, notwithstanding the failure, by lapse, of the prior gift," that
unless it appeared on the face of the will "that the gift to the
defendants was not intended to take effect unless the prior gift
to Ann Smith and Eleonora Cummings Robison took effect,
the former must be considered as taking effect in place of and
as a substitute for the prior gift which, by reason of the contmgency, has failed;" and that considering the third and
fourth subdivisions together, the limitations were to be taken
as a complete disposition of his estate, in the mind of the testator, who did not intend to die intestate as to any portion
thereof, giving to the widow an estate for life, with an estate
over for life to the sisters,,contingent on surviving the widow,
and with the ultimate remainder to the charitable institutions.
In Newell v Nichols, 12 Hun, 604, affirmed in 75 N. Y 78,
a wife had died leaving a husband and two children, a son and
a daughter. By her will she created three funds, one of $30,000,
the income of which was to go to her husband, and, on his
death, the principal to the heirs of her body then living, and in
default of such heirs to certain named remaindermen , another
fund of $15,000, the income to be paid to the daughter during
her life, the principal to be paid at her death to the heirs of her
body then living, in default of such heirs, to her appointees by
will, and in default of appointment, to the heirs of the body
of the testatrix then living, and in default of such heirs, then
to the same remaindermen, while a third sum of $15,000 was
settled upon the son as to the income, with the same provisions

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opunon of the Court.

as to the prmicpal at his death as m respect of the daughter.
The husband and children, were lost at sea, and there was no
evidence of survivorship between them. The case was decided
at special term by Van Yorst, J., whose careful and elaborate
opinion was adopted by the court in general term, and fully
approjved by the Court of Appeals. It was held that the retention of the testatrix plainly -was that the limitation over to the
remaindermen should be effectual if for any reason the children
could not take, and that the death of the children without issue
or appointment, under the circumstances, and in the absence of
evidence of survivorship, entitled the remaindermen to have
the limitation carried into effect.
It was observed by Van Vorst, J "Where a devise is limited to take effect-upon a condition or contingency annexed to
a preceding estate, if that -preceding -estate should not arise the
remainder over will take place, the first estate being considered
as a preceding limitation and not as a preceding condition.
As when a testator meant to dispose of all his property and uses the words, 'if the legatee should trot survive,'
held to mean ' if the preceding -legacy should from any cause
fail.'"
U derwood v. Wing and Wing v Angrave are relied on to
the contrary 19 Beavan, 459, 4 De Gex, .M. & G. 632, 8 H.
L. Cas. 183.
The facts were these Underwood and his wife had three
children-Catherine, Frederick and Alfred. Being about to
emigrate with their children, Mr. and Mrs. Underwood made
mutual wills, dated Obtober 4, 1853. Mr. Underwood by -his
will -devised his real and personal estate to Wing, his heirs, etc.,
in trust for Mrs. Underwood, her hMirs, etc:, absolutely, and
the will proceeded "And in case my said wife shall die inmy
lifetime, then I direct that my said real and personal estate
shall be held by my said trustee, upon trust for such of them,
my three children, Catherine Underwood, Frederick Underwood and Alfred Underwood, as, being sons or a son, shall attarn the age of twenty-one years, and being a daughter, shall
attain that age, or marry under that age, to be equally diYided
between or among them, share and share alike, and in case all

YOUNG WOMEN'S CHRISTIAN HOME v. FRENCH. 415
Opinion of the Court.

of them my said children shall die under the age of twenty-one
years, being sons, or under that age and unmarried, being a
daughter, then I give, devise and bequeath all my real and
personal estate, as aforesaid, unto and to the use of the said
William Wing, his heirs, executors. administrators and assigns,
to and for his and their own absolute use and benefit." And
the testator appointed his wife and defendant Wing executors.
Mrs. Underwood by her will, made by virtue of a power,
devised, bequeathed and appointed all the real and personal estate subject to the power, to. Mr. Underwood, his heirs, etc.,
absolutely, and the will proceeded "(Subject to the estates
and interests of my children therein, under or- by virtue of the
will.of the said John Tulley, deceased.) And in case my said
husband should die in my-lifetime, then I devise, bequeath and
appoint the said hereditaments and premises, and sum and
suni of money, and arrears of income aforesaid, unto and to
the use of William Wing, his heirs, executors, administrators
and ass)gns, to and for his and their own absolute use and benefit." And she appointed her husband and William Wing
executors.
3Mr. and Mrs. Underwood and their three children embarked
for Australia, their ship foundered, and all on board, with the
exception of one sailor, perished. Both parents and the two
boys were washed into the sea by the same wave, but the
daughter survived for half an hour. All the children died
under twenty-one and unmarried. Wing proved both -wills
and plaintiff obtained letters of admnimstration of the estate df
Catherine Underwood. 19 Beav. 459, 460.
The courts agreed in the conclusion that at common law
there could be no presumption of prior decease in the absence
of proof, although the evidence tended to show that the husband was in good health and an able swimmor, while his wife
was in delicate health, and their children of tender age, and
this ruling has ever since been accepted in the English courts
and by the uniform current of authority in the United States.
Under the wills, the husband, wife and children, having
practically died simultaneously, the intention of both testators
that their estate should pass to Mr. Wing seemed plain, but

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

the House of Lords (and the courts below) held otherwise, and
that as Mr. Wing could not show either that the death of the
husband occurred in the wife's lifetime, or that the wife's death
occurred in the husband's lifetime, he could receive neither
estate. Inthe construction which produced this result it cannot be said that the courts of this country have generally concurred. Lord Campbell, then Lord Chancellor, dissented, and,
referring to the wife's will, said "Of course, I fully recognize
all the cases where, there being i a will a gift really meant to
be on condition, or the happening of a particular event, the
court decided that it could not take effect unless the condition
was performed, or the event had happened. But the present
seems to me to be a case of substitution, to take effect on failure of the prior estate." Granting that effect is to be given
to the expressed, not the conjectural or probable intention of
testators, he thought that by this will the testatrix clearly
expressed her intention that if her husband did not take the
property, William Wing should take it. "The lapse of the
bequest to her husband by his predecease being substantially
the only event upon which the bequest to him could fail, when
she says, 'In case my said husband should die in my lifetime,'
does she not, in substance say, in case the bequest to my husband should fail, then William Wing is the object of my
bounty, and all shall go to him? She has not provided for the
event of there being an impossibility to determine whether she
or her husband died first. But although she has not in terms
provided for this event, she has clearly intimated her intention,
that in case of the gift to her husband not taking effect, the
ulterior gift to William Wing should take effect. And this
seems to me not to be an interpolation into her will, but a
necessary implication from what she has said. How can it be
supposed that if she had foreseen the event of an uncertainty
as to whether she or her husband died first, so that her husband could not take from that uncertainty, she would have
altered the intention she had so plainly expressed in favor of
William Wing 2 Can it be considered possible that William
Wing would, in that event, have ceased to be the object of her
bounty ? What other destination of the property, by her, can

YOUNG WOMEN'S CHRISTIAN HOME v. FRENCH. 417
Opinon of the Court.

be conjectured? If her husband should not take, William
It seems tQ me to be
Wing was substituted for him.
a fallacy to say that this was a gift merely on the happening
of a particular event, unless that event is taken to be the failure of the prior gift to her husband."
It will be perceived that it was held that for the purpose of
giving effect to the wills, the husband was not to be assumed
to have survived the wife, nor the wife to have survived the
husband; and yet, the wills having been thus eliminated, it
was declared that the heirs and next of kin of -Mr.Underwood
were entitled to his property as though he.had been the survivor, and that the heirs and next of kin of -Mrs.Underwood
should take her property as though she had been the survivor.
Whether in a given case a condition precedent, a condition
subsequent, or a conditional limitation, is prescribed, is, in the
absence of unmistakable language, matter of construction.
And conditions cannot be annexed from words capable of being
interpreted as mere description of what must occur before the
estate given can arise. Edgeworth v. Edgewort, L. R. 4 H. L.
35.
As in all of these cases, so in this, we are remitted to the language of the will to ascertain the intention of the testatrix, and
if that intention is clearly deducible from the terms used, taking
the whole will together, then we are bound to give that construetion which will effectuate and not defeat it. 'Reading this will
from the standpoint of the testatrix, as ,re must, we think it
not open to doubt that she intended to dispose of all her estate,
and did not intend to die intestate as to any part of it, that she
had in mind only three objects of her bounty, her husband, her
son and the Home, and that her intention, failing husband and
son, was that the Home should take. If husband alone survived it was to go to the Home at his death. If neither husband nor son survived it was to go to the Home at once. Is
her manifest intention to be defeated because instead of saying,
"If neither my husband nor my son should survive me, I give
and bequeath my property to the. Home,"-she said "In the
event of my becoming the survivor of both my husband, Oliver
Wheeler Rhodes, and of my, son, Eugene Rhodes, I give and
voL. ct.xxxvi-27

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

bequeath all my property to the Young Women's Christian
Home "

We do not feel compelled to so hold, and, by accepting so
technical and literal a view, to reach an adverse result on the
theory of a change in the burden of proof, or of an accidental
omission to prevent it. This is not a case of supplying something omitted by oversight, but of intention sufficiently expressed to be carried out on the actual state of facts. And as
the estates of persons perishing in a common disaster, intestate,
notwithstanding the statutes of descent and distribution may
not have made provision in respect thereof, are disposed of as
if each survived as to his own property, we think, upon prmciple, that the property of Mrs. Rhodes should go as directed
as if she survived her son, in the absence of proof to the contrary
It necessarily follows that title did not pmflfame vest in
the son, who is not shown to have survived his mother, and
must be taken to have died at the same time. The property reoained where it was vested, there being no evidence to show
that it had been divested.
illustrated by the case of inre WRilbor, 20
The situation 'is
R. I. 126. There Charlotte, Martha and Eliza Willbor, three
sisters, perished in the same calamity, and there was nothing
from which it could be inferred that either survived the other.
Each left a will devising all her real and personal property, excepting certain legacies, to her two sisters, or either of the survivors, and to their heirs and assigns forever. The Supreme
Court of Rhode Island said "As all. three of the testatrices
lost their lives in the same disaster, and no fact or circumstance
appears from which it can be inferred that either survived the
others, the question of survivorship must be regarded as unascertainable, and hence the rights of succession to their estates
are to be determined as if death occurred to all at the same
If all three of the testatrices are to be remoment.
garded as having died at the sqme moment., it follows that the
bequest and devise in each of their wills to the two sisters or
either of the survivors did not take effect, there being no interval of tune as between the deaths of the three during which

WESTERN UNION TEL. CO. V'. NEW HOPE.

419

Statement of the Case.

titles to property could vest, and the wills therefore stand as
if they contained only the bequests to the legatees stibsequently
named."
The result is that the property passed under the will to the
Home, and neither the next of kin of -the mother nor the next
of kin of the son can defeat its destination.
[Die decree of the Court of Afppeals ts 'eversed and the caume
remanded with a direct-n to afrn the decree of the Suj)reme Court.

WESTERN UNION TELEGR APH COMPANY-v. BOROUGH OF NEW HOPE.
-ERROR TO THE SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF PENNSYLVANIA.
No. let.

Argued December 2, 3, 1i02.-Decided January 5, 1903.

An ordinance of the borough of New Hope, Pennsylvania, imposing an annual license fee of one dollar per pole and two dollars and a half per mile
of wilrb o the'telegraphb, telephone and electric light poles within the
limits of the borough is not a tax on the property of the telegraph company ownimng the poles and wires, or on its transmission of messages or
on its receipts for such transmission, but is a charge in the enforcement
of local governmental supervision, and as such is not in itself obnoxious
to the coinmece clause of the Federal Constitution.
As the elements entering into such a charge are various, and as in this case
the courts of Pennsylvania have decided that the charge imposed by the
ordinance is reasonable in the circumstances and the ordinance valid, this
court does not feel justified in holding that conclusion to be so manifestly
erroneous as to require revision.

By an ordinance passed in 1894, the borough of New Hope,
Pennsylvania, imposed an annual license fee of one dollar per
pole and two dollars and a half per mile of wire on the telegraph, telephone, and electric light poles and wires within its
limits. The Western Union Teleoraph Company had constructed prior thereto and bad ince maintained and operated a
line of telegraph poles and wires through the borough, and this
was an action brought in the Court of Common Pleas of Bucks

