MANLEY v. PARK.
Syllabus.

resident citizens might tend toincrease the cost of the work, or
it might have the opposite effect by inducing outside laborers
to become resident citizens. But, as we have said' such conjectural results are too remote and uncertain to furnish materials
for judicial determination. The serious duty of condemning
state legislation as unconstitutional and void cannot be thrown
upon this court, except at the suit of parties directly and certainly affected therebyThe judgment of the Supreme Court of Louisiana is
Afflrmed.
MR. Jusrm; HAii

and MR. JUSTICE

WHITE

dissent.

MANLEY v. PARK.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF KANSAS.
No. 120. Argued December 17, 1902.-Decidpd January 5, 1903.
1

The construction given bythe Supreme Court of Kansas to the Kansas statutes holding that real estate situated in that State, the title to which was
vested in a non-l'esident executor, to whom letters testamentary had been
issudd by a court of another jurisdiction, may be attached and sold in an
action of debt against the non-resident executor, is binding on this court.
And, treating the statutes as having such import as a decision upon a
matter of local law, this court must determine whether as so construed
they violate the Federal right involved.
A domestic judgment of a state court entered after the defendant had appeared generally and whose validity it would have been the duty of this
cohrt to uphold on direct proceedings to o!tain a reversal thereof, should
be treated by courts of the United States so faras it relates to Federal questions which existed at the commencement of the action, as valid between
the parties to the judgment. and if no claim to the protection of the Constitution of the United States was set up in any form in the proceedings
had in the state court prior to judgment, such protection cannot be invoked for the first time in this court to annul the judgment on the ground
tha it is absolutely void and of no effect under the Constitution of the
United States.
AFederal defence which cannot be availed of unless raised before judgment
is not efficacious, when it has not been raised at the proper time, to avoid
the judgment when rendered.

OCTOBER TERMT, 1902.
Statement of the Case.

RiCimuD A. PARK was plaintiff in the original action, brought

in the District Court of Atchison County, Kansas, against William H. Risk, executor of the estate of George Manley, deceased.
It was alleged in the petition, in substance, that the decedent
was at the tine of his death the owner of stock of the par value
of $27,500, in a Kansas corporation, known as the Kansas Trust
& Banking Company, that said corporation, subsequent to the
death of Manley, became indebted to plaintiff, that the corporation was insolvent and had no property from which such indebtedness could be realized, that the defendant, as executor
of the estate of Manley, became, seized and possessed of all the
pr.-perty of the decedent within the State of Kansas, including
the shares of stock referred to, and, by reason of a contractual
liability imposed on the stockholders of said corporation, defendant was liable to plaintiff for the indebtedness in question.
There was filed with the petition an affidavit for attachment,
because of the non-residence of the defendant, and after the return of the summons an attachment was levied on certain real
estate in Atchison County, Kansas, "as the property of said
defendant William H. Risk, executor of the estate of George
Manley, deceased." Publication of notice of the pendency of
the action was made, as required by laws of Kansas. Within
the tine limited for answering the defendant appeared generally by filing a demurrer to the petition on the grounds of a
want of jurisdiction over the person of the defendant and the
subject of the action, because several causes of action were improperly joined, 'and because the petition did not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action. Thereafter, Reuben A.
Manley, successor to William H. Risk, as executor and trustee
of the estate of George Manley, deceased, was substituted as
defendant in the stead of Risk. An answer was thereupon filed,
in which most of the material averments of the petition were
admitted, such as the ownership by George Manley in his lifetime of the stock in question, the execution of his last will and
testament, its admission to probate and the grant of letters
testamentary to Risk and to his successor by a New Jersey orphans' court, that Risk and his successor "became seized and
possessed of all the property of the late George Manley, de-

MANLEY ,,. PARK.
Counsel for Parties.

ceased, lying and being situated in the State of Kansas," and
that the substituted defendant (Reuben M. Manley) "became
and is now a stockholder of the said, The Kansas Trust & Bank.
mg Company, and as such executor of said estate is the owner
and holder of said shares of stock of said corporation, amounting to the sum of $27,500." Separate defences were interposed
to defeat recovery, such as that plaintiff had not reduced his
claim against the Kansas corporation to judgment, that there
was a defect of parties plaintiff, that a special fund created by
the Kansas corporation.for the payment-of the indebtedness in
question existed, and should first be exhausted, and that various
actions were pending in which recovery was- sought by judgment creditors of said Kansas corporation, upon the liability of
defendant as a stockholder in said corporation.
Issue was joined by the filing of a reply, the cause was tried
by the court, judgment for the amount claimed was rendered
against the defendant, and the attached real estate was ordered
sold. The cause was taken to the Supreme Court of Kansas,
and that court dismissed the petition in error because of an informality in the proceedings and with out passing on the merits.
61 Kansas, 857. After the mandate had been fied in the lower
court separate motions were made on behalf of defendant, to
set aside the judgment and to withdraw the order for- the sale
of the attached property The same grounds were assigned in
support of each motion, and the claim. of the protection of the
Constitution of the ITnited States was embodied in the third
ground, by the assertion that a statute of Kansas, upon which
the judgment complained of was based, violated the first and
second sections of the fourth article of and .the -provisions of
the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitutmon of the United
States. The motions were overruled, and the "decision and
judgment" was subsequently affirmed by the Supreme Court of
Kansas. 62 Kansas, 553. By writ of error-the cause was then
brought to this court. The original defendant in error having
died, Anna 0. Park has been substituted as defendant in error.
-W' L. F Bzrd for plaintiff in error. J'
was with hin on the brief.

C. F llutlhngs

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

MYr J F Tqfts for defendant in error. .M, Horace X
Jackson was with him on the brief.
Mr.

JUSTICE WHITE,

after making the foregoing statement,

delivered the opinion of the court.
A motion has been made to dismiss the writ of error upon
the ground that no Federal question is presented by the record,
it being claimed that the decision and judgment of the Supreme
Court of Kansas sought to be reviewed was based solely upon
a consideration of local statutes and the determination of a
question of general law, viz., the effect as esudicataof a judgment of a court of Kansas. But as the claim of the benefit of
the Constitution of the United States was specially made in the
motions and was passed upon adversely to the moving party,
it follows that a Federal question exists in this record, and the
motion to dismiss is therefore overruled. .Xissoum-, _ansas
&c. Bly. Co. v Elliott, 184 U S. 530, 534.
The specifications of error now relied upon are thus stated
in the brief of counsel for plaintiff in error
"First. Under the constitution and laws of the State of Kansas, an executor, resident in the State of Kansas, could be sued
in a District Court of the State, but the property in his charge
could not be attached, nor sold on execution.
"Second. Under the constitution and statutes of the State
of Kansas, no authority exists for attaching the property in
charge of a non-resident executor.
"Third. Section 203 of the executors' and administrators'
act, par 2989, Gen. Stat. Kansas, 1889, as construed and upheld
in this case, is in violation of sec. 2, art. 4, of the Constitution
of the United States, in that it does not accord to the plaintiff
in error and his predecessor, citizens of the State of New Jersey,
all the privileges and immunities of an executor resident in
the State of Kansas. Sec. 2, art. 4, Const. U S.
"Fourth. Sec. 203 of the executors' and administrators' act,
par. 2989, Gen. Stat. Kansas, 1889, as construed and upheld in this
case, is in violation of the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution of the United States, in that it abridges the privileges

MANLEY o. PARK.
Opinion of the Court.

of the pla.ntiff in error and his predecessor, citizens of the'
United States, and their immunity from suit by attachment,
and deprives them of their property without due process of law,
and demes them the equal protection of the laws.
"Fifth. The right of the plaintiff in error, and his predecessor, citizens of the State of New Jersey, to act as executors of
the estate of George Manley, deceased, is a privilege, and tho
exemption of an executor, not a resident m the State of Kansas, from suits by attachment, is an immunity which is guaranteed by sec. 2, art. 4, Constitution of the United States, and the
same were denied by the decision of the Supreme Court of Kansas in thls case."
The first and second propositions, it is manifest, simply invite
a consideration of the constitution and laws of the State of Kansas, and, consequently, the construction adopted by the'Supreme Court of Kansas of the pertinent provisions of such constitution and laws, is binding upon this court as a decision upon
a matter of purely local law, not presenting a Federal question.
We must accept then fs undeniable the ruling of the highest
court of Kansas, that under the constitution and statutes of
Kansas real estate situated in that State, the title to which was
vested in a non-resident executor, to whom letters testamentary
had been issued by- a court of another. jurisdiction, might be
attached and sold, in an -action of debt against the non-resident
executor.
The remaining propositions assail the validity, under the Constitution of the-United StAdes, of the statute of Kansas,.par. 2989,
Gen. Stat. Kansas, 1889, see. 147, ch. 107, Gen. Stat. Kansas,
1897, as thus construed by tire Supreme Court of Kansas. The
section in question upon which the judgment complained of was
based is as follows

"An executor or administrator duly appointed in any other
State or country may sue or be sued in any court in this State,
in his capacity of executor or administrator, in like manner and
under like restrictions as a non-resident may sue or be suc-d."
This section was held to authorize an attachment of property
in an action against a non-resident executor, precisely as in ordinary actions against non-residents.

OCTOBER TERh, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

Now, the claimed nullity of the judgment assailed was based
upon the alleged invalidity of the Kansas statute above quoted,
as respected the Constitution of the United States, in this, that
as an executor resident in Kansas possessed the privilege or'
immunity of not being subject to suit by attachment of property, a like privilege or immunity within the State of Kansas
was vested by the Constitution of the United States in executors who were not residents of Kansas, and the refusal of the
State of Kansas to accord such privilege or immunity to a nonresident executor and the subjecting him to the operation of
attachment laws, deprived the foreign executor of his property
without due process of law and denied him the equal protection
of the laws. But, it is'obvious, we think, under the circumstances disclosed in this record, that the protection of the Constitution of the United States could not be successfully invoked
to annul the judgment here complained of, on the theory that
such judgment was absolutely void and of no effect under the
Constitution of the United States. This results from the consideration that no claim to the protection of the Constitution
of the United States was set up in any form in the proceedings
had in the state court which resulted ii the judgment complained of, and for such reason, if that judgment had been
brought to this court for review, it would have been its duty
-having in mind the provisions of section 709 of the Revised
Statutes-to affirm the judgment and recognize its binding
force, because no Federal question was raised. A domestic
judgment of a state court whose validity it would have been
the duty of this court to uphold, on direct proceedings to obtain a reversal of such judgment, manifestly should be treated
by courts of the United States, so far as relates to Federal
questions which existed at the time the action was commenced
in which the judgment was rendered, as valid between the
parties to such judgment. We could not hold to the contrary
without saying that a Federal defence which could not be availed
of unless raised before judgment was yet efficacious, although
not raised, to avoid the judgment when rendered. Tins would
necessarily declare a plain contradiction in terms. As the authority conferred by Kansas upon her courts was to set aside

LONE WOLF v. HITCHCOCK.
Syllabus.

vouz judgments, provisions of the Constitution of the United
States which would have been available if pleaded or otherwise
presented in the state courts as a defence m the proceedings
in the original action to defeat the recovery of a valid judgment,
cannot, when the opportunity has not been availed of and the
judgment has become a finality, be resorted to as establishing
that in fact the judgment possessed no binding force or efficacy
whatever.
Judgment affirmed.

LONE WOLF v. HITOHCOCK.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.
No. 275. Argued October 23, 1902.-Decided January 5,1903.
The provisions in article 12 of the Medicine Lodge treaty of 1867 with the
Kiowa and Comanche Indians to the effect that no treaty for the cession
of any part of the reservation therein described, which may be held in
common, shall be of any force or validity as against the Indians unless
executed and signed by at least three fourths of all the adult male Indians
occupying the same, cannot be adjudged to materially limit and qualify
the controlling authority of Congress in respect to the care and protection of the Indians and to deprive Congress, in a possible emergency,
when the necessity might be urgent for a partition and disposal of the
tribal lands, of all power to act if the assent of three fourths of all the
male Indians could not be obtained. Congress has always exercised
plenary authority over the tribal relations of the Indians-and the power
has always been deemed a political- one not subject to. be controlled-by
the courts.
In view of the legislative power possessed by Congress over treaties with
the Indians, and Indian tribal property, even if a subsequent agreement
or treaty purporting to be signed by three fourths of all the male Indians
was not signed and amendments to such subsequent treaty were not submitted to the Indians, as all these matters were solely within the domain
of the legislative authority, the action of Congress is conclusive upon the
courts.
As the act of June 6, 1900, as to the disposition of these lands was enacted at a
time when the tribal relations between the confederated tribes of the Kiowas, Comanches and Apaches still existed, and that statute and the statutes

