GRIN v. SHINE.

181

Syllabus.

GRIN v. SHINE.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNI'ED STATES FOR THE
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA.
No. 303. Submitted November 3,1902.-Decided December 1, 1902.

Extradition treaties should be faithfully observed and interpreted with a
view to fulfilling our just obligations to other powers, without sacrificing the legal or constituJtional rights of the accused. Technical noncompliance with formalities of criminal procedure should not be allowed
to stand in the way of the discharge of the international obligations of
this Government.
1. Section 5270 of the Revised Statutes is satisfied if the commissioner before
whom the warrant requires, the person arrested to appear has been specifically authorized to act in extradition proceedings on the same day the
waryant is issued, and the oath to the complaint need not necessarily be
taken before a commissioner specially authorized' to act in extradition
proceedings; but the judge issuing the warrant may act upon a complaint
sworn to before a United States commissioner authorized generally to
take affidavits.
2. The District Judge may make the warrant teturnable directly before a
commissioner who upon the same day is specially designated to act in extradition proceedings. It ieed not necessarily be made before himself.
3. Under a statute punishing embezzlement of property which has come
under thd control or care, of the defendant by virtue of his employment as
clerk, agent, or servant, it is sufficent to allege that the defendant while
so employed embezzled money entrusted to, and receivc by, him in his
capacity as clerk, etc.
A complaint in extradition need not set forth the crime with the particularity of an indictment. It is sufficient if it fairly, apprises the party of
the crime with which he is charged.
4. A complaint is not defective because it does not use the word "fraudulently" in referring to the defendant's action in embezzling the money
implies a fraudulent intent;
entrusted to him. The *word "embezzle"
the addition of the word "fraudulently" would be mere surplusage._
5. Anorder made by an officer in'Russia, purporting to act as an examining
magistrate, and reciting the fact of defendant's flight and ordering hin
.to be brought before an examining magistrate, which is evidently designed to secure the apprehension of the accused and his production before
an examining magistrate, although not in. the form of a warrant of arrest
as used in this country, is a sufficient' compliance with the provision of
the treaty which requires an authenticated copy of the warrant of arrest

-

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Statement of the Case.
or of some other equivalent judicial document issued by a judge or magistrate of the demanding government. Furthermore, Congress not having required by section 5270 the production of a warrant of arrest by the
foreign magistrate, has waived that requirement of the treaty.
6. The suffidiency of evidence properly certified under section 5 of the act of
August 3, 1882, 22 Stat. 216, to establish the criminality of the accused
for the purposes of extradition, cannot be reviewed upon habeas corpus
(following In re Otezza, 136 U. S. 330).
7. Where depositions and other documents in the record are certified by
the proper officer, as required by the act of August 3, except that the certificate says that the papers "are properly and legally authenticated so
as to entitle them to be received and admitted as eidence for similar purposes by the tribunals of Russia," the language being a literal conformation to the statute, adding only the words italicized, the introduction of
those worls does not invalidate the certificate.
8. Under section 5270 the complaint may be made by any person peting
under authority of the demanding government having knowledge of the
facts. The accused, however, can only be surrended upon the requisition
made by the foreign government through the diplomatic agent or superior
consular officer, and this may be made entirelyindependently of theproceeding before the magistrate, and the certificate of the Secretary of State
that such demand has been made does not have to be produced before the
warrant can be issued.
9. Where a cheque is delivered to a clerk with instructions to draw money
from th6 bank, take it to the railway, and forward it to another city, lie
obtains possession of both the cheque and the"money honestly and with
the consent of his principal, and if he subsequently converts the money
to his use, it is prima facte a case of embezzlement and not of larceny,
within the definitions of both crimes under the laws of California, and
while there might be a question for a jury in n Russian court to pass on,
it is sufficient in proceedings here if aprimafaciecase of embezzlement
is made out.

THIs was an appeal from a ]udgment of the Circuit 10ourt for
the Northern District of California, dismssing a writ of habea
co2pus sued out by Grin, and remanding him to the custody of
,, 4he defendant, marshal for the Northern District of California,
zvbo held him' under a mittimus issued by a commissioner in
certain proceedings under a treaty with the Emperor of Russia
for the extradition of criminals, proclaimed June 5, 1893. .28

Star. 1071.
These proceedings were begun by a complaint of Paul Kosakevitch, Russian consul at the city of San Francisco, stating in
substance that on March 6, 1901, Grin, a Cossack of the Don

GRIN v. SHINE.
Opimon of the Court.

and a Russian subject, in the employment of the firm of E. L.
Zeefo & Co., doing business in the city of Rostov, on the river
Don, in the Empire of Russia, embezzled the sum of 25,000
roubles, "entrusted to and received by" him in his capacity as
"clerk" of such firm, and that he had subsequently absconded
and taken refuge in San Francisco, that he had been indicted
in Russia for the embezzlement of the money, and that a mandate had been issued by the Department of State in Washington directing the necessary proceedings to be had in pursuance
of the.laws of the United States, in order that the evidence of
this criminality might be heard and considered. The complaint
was sworn to before George E. Morse, United States commissioner, with the usual power to take affidavits, but not specially
authorized by any court of the United States to take proceedings in extradition., that upon such complaint the judge of the
District Court for the Northern District of California issued a
warrant of arrest, and directed that petitioner, when arrested,
should be brought before E. H. Heacok, Esquire, United States
commissioner, for examination and further proceedings, that,
at the time such warrant was issued, lleacock was not authorized to take jurisdiction of extradition proceedings, and that
the evidence before him failed to show that the petitioner had
committed the crime of embezzlement.
Several other defects in theoextradition proceedings are set
forth in the petition, and so far as they are, deemed material
appear hereafter in the opinion.
Upon a hearing upon this petition the Circuit Court made an
order remanding the petitioner to the custody of the marshal,
and an appeal was thereupon taken to this court. Are Gr,
112 Fed. Rep. 790.
iMv, George D Collins for appellant.
.M'" Richard Bayne and .
government.

IT G Platt for the Russian

MR. TuSTIcE BRoww, after making the foregoing statement,
delivered the opinion of the court.

OCTOBER TERMI,

1902.

Opinion of the Court.

We shall only notice -such alleged defects in the extradition
proceedings as are pressed upon our attention in the briefs cdf
counsel. While these defects are of a techmcal character, they
are certainly entitled to respectful and deliberate consideration.
Good faith toward foreign powers, with which we have entered
into treaties of extradition, does not require us to surrender
persons ctarged with crime in violation of those well-settled
principles of cqriminal procedure which from time immemorial,
have characterized Anglo-Saxon jurisprudence. Persons charged
with crime inforeign countries, who have taken refuge here,

are entitled to the same defences as others accuted of crime
within our own jurisdiction.
We are not prepared, however, to yield our assent to the
suggestion that treaties of extradition. are invasions of the right
of political habitation within our territory, or that every intendment in proceedings to carry out these treaties shall be in
favor of the party accused. Such treaties are rather exceptions
,tothe general right of political asylum, and an extension of
,our immigration laws prohibiting the introduction of persons
convicted-of crimes, 18 Stat. 477, by providing for their deportation and return t6"their own country, even before conviction,
,when their sur'render is demanded in the interests of public
justice. There is such a general acknowledgment of the necessity of such treaties that of late, and slice the facilities for
the escape of criminals have so greatly increased, most civilized
powers have entered into conventions for the mutual surrender
,of persons.4harged with the most- serious non-political crimes.
These treaties should be faithfully observed, and interpreted
with a view to fulfill our just. obligations to other powers,
without sacrificing the legal or constitutional rights of the accused.
In the construction and carrying out of such treaties the ordinary technicalities of criminal proceedings are applicable only
to.a limited extent. Foreign powers :are not expected to be
versed in the niceties of our crimihal laws, and~proceedings
for, a surrender are not such as put in issue, the life or liberty
of; the accused. They simply demand of him that he shall do
what all good citiiens are required, and ought to be-willing, to

GRIN v. SHINE.

185 ,

Opimon of the Court.

do, viz., submit themselves to the laws of their country Care
should doubtless be taken that the treaty be not made a pretext
for collecting private debts, wreaking individual malice, or
forcing the surrender of political offenders, but where the
proceeding is manifestly taken in good faith, a technical noncompliance with some formality, of criminal procedure should
not be allowed to stand m the war of a-faithful discharge of
our obligations. Presumably at least, no injustice is contemplated, and a.proceeding which may'have the effect of relieving the country from the presence of. one whQ is likely to
threaten the peace and good order of the community, is rather
to be welcomed than discouraged.
1. The first assignment of error is that the commissioner
had no jurisdiction over the case, inasmuch as at the time'the
warrant of arrest was issued he had not been authorized- to
act, in extradition procgedings by any of the courts of the
United States under Re4. Stat. sec. 52TO, which, reads as
follows
"-S o. 5270. Whenever there is a, treaty or- convention for
extradition between the government of the United States and
any foreign government, any justice of the Supreme Court, circuit judge, district, judge, commissioner, 'authorized so to do- by
any of' the courts of the United States, or judge of a court. of
record of general jurisdiction of any State, may, upon complaint
made muder oath, charging any person found within the limitq
of any State, District, or Territory, with having committed within the jurisdiction of' any such foreign government any of the
crimes provided for by such treaty or convention,.issue his warrant for the apprehension of the person so charged, that he may
-be brought bqfore such justice, judge,, or commissioner, to the
-end that the evidence of criminality may be heard and considered. If, on such hearing, he deems the evidence sufficient to.
sustain the charge under the provisions of the proper treaty or
convention, he shall certify the same, together -with -a copy, of
all the -testimony taken 'before him, to the Secretary of State,
thai.a warrant may issue upon the requiisition of'the proper authorities of such foreign government, for the surrender of such
person, according tQ the stipulations -of the treaty or conven-

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

tion, and he shall issue his warrant for the commitment of the
person so charged to the proper jail, there to remain until such
surrender shall be made."
Under this section it is plain, first, that the commissioner
must be specially authorized to act iu extradition cases, second,
that a complaint must be made under oath charging the crime,

third, that a warrant must issue for the apprehension of the
person, fourth, that he must be brought before such justice,
judge or commissioner to the end that the evidence of criminality may be heard and considered, fifth,,that the commissioner
shall certify the evidence to the Secretary of State, that a warrant may issue for the surrender. There is certainly no requirement here that the commissioner shall 15e authorized to act
before he Assumes to act, and in this case there is no evidence
that he assumed to act until 'after October 17, 1901, when he
was specially appointed for that purpose. The day upon which
the petitioner was brought before the commissioner, Heacock,
does not appear, but his commitment is dated November 19,
1901. The warrant upon which he was arrested was issued October 11, thbe day upon which the commissioner was specially
authorized to act.
It is true that a warrant of arrest can only issue under sec. 5270
upon a complaint made under oath, but there is no requirement
that the oath shall be taken before a commissioner authorized
to act in extradition proceedings, or even before the judge or
commissioner, who issues the warrant of arrest. While we are
bound, to gave the person accused the benefit of every statutory
provision, we are not bound to import words into the statute
which are not found*there, or to say that the judge issuing the
warrant may not receive an oath taken before a commissioner
authorized generally to take affidavits. There is no evidence
that Mr. Morse, who took this complaint, was not a United
States commissioner appointed under the act of May 28, 1896,
'29 Stat. 140, 184, and the fact that he sgns his name as such,
and that he was recognized as such by the Circuit Court in this
proceeding, is suffidient evidence of hig authority It is true
the district judge, who issued this warrant of arrest, might himself have adminitered the oath, but-lhe was equally at liberty

GRIN v., SHINE.
Opinion of the Court.

to act upon a complaint sworn to before a United States commissioner.
2. Nor did the district judge, who issued the warrant, exceed
his powers in making it returnable before a commissioner, who
upon the same day was specially designated to act in extradition
proceedings. It is true that the statute provides, sec. 5270,
that the person before whom the complaint is made may "issue
his warrant for the apprehension of the person so charged, that
he may be brought before 8uch.justice, judge, or commissioner,
to the end that the evidence of criminality may be heard and
considered ," but the practice in this ds in other proceedings of
a criminal or qua8i criminal nature has been to make the warrant returnable before the magistrate issuing the warrant, or
some other magistrate competent to take jurisdiction of the
proceedings. In the case of _Henrow, 5 Blatchf. 414,the conplaint'was made before Commissioner White, was laid before
Mr. Justice Nelson of this court, whoissued his warrant returnable before himself or Commissioner White. No objection was
made to the proceedings for tins reason, though the case was
vigorously contested upon other grounds, notably because the
warrant was executed without the limits of the district, and
within the State of Wisconsin. The fact that the point was not
made in the case certainly indicates that it was not considered
by counsel to be even a plausible ground for quashing the proceedings.
The commissioner is in fact an adjunct of the court, possessing
independent, though subordinate, judicial powers of his own.
If the district jidge, acting under sec. 5270, had made the warrant returnable before himself, there could be no doubt of its
legality, and in such case, upon the return'of the warrant with
the prisoner in custody, he might refer the case to the commissioner to examine the witnesses; hear the case, and report
his conclusions to the court for its approval. If he could do
that, we see no objection to his referring the case directly to
the commissioner by making the warrant returnable before him,
inasmuch as the latter possesses the same power with respect
to the extradition of criminals as the district judge himself. It
may be said that technically the warrant should be made re-

OCTOBER TERM., 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

turnable before the magistrate issuing it, but where it is made
returnable before. another officer, having the same power and
jurisdiction to act, we do not think it is fairly open to criticism.
This practice is by no means unknown under the criminal'
laws of the several States. Thus in Commonwealth v O'ConnellZ, 8 Gray, 464, it was held that a mere grant of "exclusive
jurisdiction" to a. police court over certain offences, did not exclude the authority of justices of the peace to receive complaints
and issue warrants returnable before that court. To the same
effect are Commonwealth v Pdindar, 11 Metc. 539, Commonwealth v' Roar'k, 8 'Cush. 210, Commonwealth v WTolcott,
-110 Massachusetts, 67;, Hendee v. Taylor, 29 Connecticut, 448.
No objection seems. to have bden taken to the proceedings
before the commissioner upon the ground that he did not issue
the warrant, and as he was fully vested with authority to act
in extradition'cases we do not think the fact that the -judge,
for the convenient dispatch of businessi made his warrant-returnable before such commissioner can be made available upon
'a-writof }habea&copuos.
3. 'The eighth assignment of error turns upon the sufficiency
of the -charge of embezzlement. The first article 6f the extradition treaty with Russia of June 5, 1893, 28 Stat. 10'1,
after providing for the mutual surrender of fugitive criminals
from one country to another, declares that "this shall only be
done upon such evidence of criminality as, according to the
laws of the place where the fugitive or person so charged shall
be found; would justify his-or her apprehension and commitment for trial if the crime or offence had been there committed." We do not deem it necessary to iniqmre whether the
words ".evidence of criminality" include a definition of the
crime charged or to determine by what law the elements of
the crime-of embezzlement are fixed. Moore on Extradition,
see. 344. As the petitioner has sought to apply the definition
of embezzlement kiven in the law of California as likely to be
mbstfavorable to. himself, -and the prosecution has assented to
this view, we assume for the, purposes of thi case that this is
the definition contemplated by the treaty
Section 508 of the Penal Code of California is as follows.

GRIN v. SHINE.
Opinion of the Court.

"E very clerk, agent, or servant of any person who fraudulently appropriates to his own use, or secretes with a fraudulent
intent to appropriate to his own use, any property of another
which has come into his control or care by virtue of his employment as such clerk, agent, or servant, is guilty of embezzlement."
Objection is made to the complaint upon the ground that
there is no allegation that the money embezzled came into his
control or care "by virtue of his employment" as such clerk,
the allegation being that Grin was employed as clerk; that
while so employed the money was entrusted to and received
by him "in his capacity as clerk," as aforesaid. Whatever
might be the force of, an objection to an indictment that it does
not set out in the exact language of the statute' the fact that,
the money came into his possession by virtue of his employnient, we think that the complaint, in this particular is clearly
sufficient. It is a general principle of criminal law that the
complaint need not set forth- the crime with the particularity
of an indictment, and that it is sufficient, if it fairly apprises
the party of the crinie of which he is charged. If there be any
distinction at' all between an allegation that money came into
the possession of a person by vartue ofhis employment as clerk,
and in his. capacity as clerk, it is too -shadowy to .be made a
matter of exception to the complaint.
4. Equally unfounded is it that the complaint is defective
because it does not use the word "fraudulently," the allegation being "that the accused 'vrongfully, unlawfully and feAs the word "emloniously appropriated said money"
bezzled" itself implies, fraudulent conduct "on the part of the,
person receiving the money, the addition of the word "fraudulent" would not enlarge or restrict its -signification.. Indeed,
it is impossible for a person to 'embezzle the money of another
without committing a fraud upon him. _he definition of the
word "embezzlement" is given by Bouvier as "the fraudulent
appropriation to one's own use of the money or goods entrusted
to one's care by another." In City v. Randall, 54 California,
408, a complaint that defendant did "wilfully, unlawfully, and
feloniously embezzle and convert" certain securities to his

OCTOBER TERM, 1902. ,
Opimon of the Court.

own use, was. held to be a sufficient compliance with see. 1426
of the Penal *Code, -requiring the offence charged to be set
forth "with such particulars of time, place, person, and proper~y as to enable the defendant to understand distinctly the
character of the offence complained of, and to answer the
complaint." The complaint in this case differs from that only
in the substitution of the word "wrongfully" for the word
,, wilfully," aiid we think it is clearly sufficient. As the word
embezzle" implies a fraudulent intent, the addition of. the
word "fraudulently" is mere surplusage. -Reeves v State, 95
Alabama, 31, United States v Zancaster, 2 McLean, 431,
Sate v Wo,; 34: La. Anm. 11S3, State v TT'roson, 21 Nevada,
419, State v Combi, 17 Kansas, 136. We express no opinion
as to whether it would be necessary in an indictment.
5. It is further insisted that the treaty requires an authenticated copy of the warrant-of arrest or of some other eqmvalent
judicial document, issued by a judge or magistrate of the
foreign government duly authorized so to do, and that there is
no such process in the record as a warrant of arrest or its
equivalent. It is true that art. VI of the treaty provides that
"when the person- whose surrender is asked shall be merely
charged with the comnssion of an extraditable crime or offence, the application- for extradition shall be accompanied by
an authenticated copy of the warrant of arrest or of some other
equivalent judicial document issued by a judge or a magistrate
duly authorized to- do so." But it can hardly be expected of
us that we.should become conversant with the criminal laws of
IRussia, or with the forms of warrants of arrest used for the
apprehension, of criminals. The clause is satisfied by the- production of an equivalent document. On examination of the
-record we find a certified copy of an order by one purporting
to act as an examining magistrate, and reciting that "having
investigated the prelimiiary examination concerning the accusation of the Cossack, Simeon Grin," and that "as he is hiding*
under a false name, and, as is seen ftom his letters, is looking
out for means to prevent his arrest and the finding out of his
address by the authorities, his temporal place of residence
being known at present," pursuant to art. Z89 -of the Criminal

GRIN v. SHINE.

1

191

Opinion ofthe Court

Code of Procedure, "he isordered to be brought to the cityof Rostov on the Don, in order to be placed at the disposition of the examining magistrate of the Taganrog Circuit
Court." This order purports not only to be signed, but sealed
by the examining magistrate. Okladnykh, and -while it is
not in the form of a warrant of arrest as used in this
country, it isevidently designed to secure the apprehension
of the accused, and his production before an examimng
magistrate. This seems to us a sufficient compliance with the
'treaty., If not a warrant of arrest it is an eqivalent judicial
document, issued by a judge or magistrate authorized to
do so.
But there isanother consideration in this connection which
should not be overlooked. While the treaty contemplates the
production of a copy of a warrant of arrest or other equivalent
document, issued by a magistrate of the Russian .Empire,'it is
within the power of Congress to dispense With this requirement,
and we think it has done so by Rev Stat. sec. 5270, herenbefore cited. The treaty is undoubtedly obligatory upon both
powers, and, if Congress should prescribe additional formalities
than those required by the treaty, it might.become the subject
of complaint by the Russian government and of further negotiations. But notwithstanding such treaty, Congress has a perfect right to provide for the extradition of criminals inits own
wav, with or without a treaty to that effect, and to declare that
foreign criminals shall be surrendered upon such proofs of
criminality as it may judge sufficient. Cast o v .Do U aze,
16 Fed. Rep. 93. This appears to have been the object of
sec. 5270, which is applicable to all foreign governments- with
which we have treaties of extradition. The requirements of
that section, as already observed, are simply a complaint under
oath, a warrant of arrest, evidence of criminality sufficient to
sustain the charge under the proyisions of the proper treaty or
convention, a certificate by the magistrate of such evidence and
his conclusions thereon, to the Secretary of State. As no mention is here made of a warrant of arrest, or other eqmvalent
document, issued by a foreign magistrate, we do not see the
necessity of its production. This iSone of the requirements of

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opmion of the Court.

the treaty which. Congress has intentionally waived. Moore
on Extradition, sec. 70.
6. Again, it is alleged that although the complaint sets
forth that criminal proceedings have been instituted in Russia,
and that Grin had been therein "indicted" for embezzlement,
no indictment has ever been found, and that no other evidence
of criminality can be received. It is obvious that the word
"indictment," as it appears in this complaint, was used in the
general sense of charged or accused by legal proceedings, and
not in the technical sense of an indictment as here understood.
An indictment is a technical word peculiar to Anglo-Saxon jurisprudence, and implies the finding of a grand jury To give
it the construction contended for would require us to kmow
what an indictment was under the laws of Russia and to inspect
it, at least so far as to ascertain the charge for which the conviction of the accused- is sought. No indictment was necessary
to be produced under this complaint, the proceeding being
governed by section 5 of the act of August 3, 1882, 22 Stat.
216
"That in all cases where any depositions, warrants, or other
papers or copies thereof shall be offerod-in evidence upon the
hearing of any extradition case under Title sixty-six of the
Revised Statutes of the United States, (secs. 5270 and'5271,)
such depositions, warrants, and other papers, or the copies
thereof, shall be received and admitted as evidence on such
hearing for all the purposes of such hearing, if they shall be
properly and legally authenticated so as to entitle them to be
received for similar, purposes by the tribunals of thd foreign
country from which the accused party shall have escaped, and
the certificate of the principal diplomatic or consular officer of
the United States resident in such foreign country shall be proof
that any-deposition, warrant or other paper or copies thereof,
so offered, are authenticated in -the manner required by this
act."

The sufficiency of such evidence to. establish the criminality
of the accused for the purposes of extradition cannot be reviewed upon habeas corpus. i re Lus Oteiza, 136 U S. 330.
7. It is further insisted that the depositions and other docu-

GRIN ,v.SHINE.

193

Opinion of the Court.

ments which appear in the record have not been properly and
legally authenticated. The certificate of the ambassador in that
connection is that these papers "are properly and legally authenticated so as to entitle them to be received and admitted as
evidence for similar purposes by the tribunals of- Russia." As
this is a literal conformation to the above-statute, adding only
the words, "as evidence," itis difficult to see m what respect
is deficient. If we were .to hold that a pertificate in the lan.it
guage of the statute were insufficient, the certifying- officer
would be at once embarked upon a sea of-speculation as to the
proper form of such certificate, and would be utterly without a
guide in endeavoring -to ascertain what the requirements of the
lw were in that particular. All that was decided in the caser
of Lum Oteiza, 136 U. S. 330, in this connection. was that depositibns and other papers authenticated and certified as required by the act, were not admissible on the part of the accused.
The introduction of the words "as evidence" does not vitiate
the certificate. We find it difficult to conceive any other purpose for which such depositions could be used except as evidence of criminality.
8. No evidence was required that the Russian consul had
authority to make the complaint. All that is required by
sec. 5270 is that a complaint shall be made under oath. It may
be made by any person Actng under the authority of the foreign government having knowledge of -the facts, or, in' the absence of such person, by the official representative of the foreign government based upon depositions in his possession,
although under the first article of the treaty the accused can
only be 8-urendred upon a "requisition" of the foreign government, and by art. VI such requisition must be made, by the
" diplomatic agent of the demanding government," and in case
of his absence from the seat of government, by the "superior,
consular officer." It is true that art. VII of the treaty provides that it "sha l l be lawful for any competent judicial authority of the United States, upon production of a certificate
issued by the Secretary of State, stating that request has been
made by the Imperial Government of Russia for the provisional
arrest of a person convicted or accused of the commission therein
VOL. cLxxxviI-13

OCTOBER. TER3M,

1902.

Opimon of the Court.

of a crime or offence extraditable under this convention, and

-upon complaint, duly made, that such criine or offence has been
so committed, to issue his warrant for the apprehension of such
person," 'and in this case it appears by the certificate of the
Acting Secretary of State that application was made in due
form by the charg6 d'affaires of Russia accredited to tns government, for the arrest of Grin, alleged to be a fugitive from
the justice of Russia. This, however, was entirely independent
of the proceedings before the magistrate, which might have
been instituted by any person making a complaint under oath
and acting by the permission or authority of the Russian government. While art. VII undoubtedly contemplates a prior
certificate of the Secretary of State, the language of the article
is merely permissive, and does not compel the production of
such certificate before the warrant can be issued.
It might readily happen that the foreign representative-might
have no knowledge of the facts necessary to be embodied in a
complaint, and have no documentary evidence then at hand to
prove them. In such case if a complaint could not be made by
a private person, having knowledge of the facts, the surrender
might easily be defeated by the flight of the accused.
It was formerly held that a requisition from the demanding
government was necessary to be produced before the commissioner could act, Tnreie r , 32 Fed. Rep. 583, but the opinion in this case was reversed by Mr. Justice Brewer on appeal
to the Circuit Court, who held that no preliminary requisition
was necessary, as extradition could not be consummated without action by the executive in the last instance, and that the
authority of the foreign government to act need not appear m
the complaint, if it were made to appear in the examination
before the commissioner, or elsewhere in the proceedings.
Bearing in mind the frequent necessity for immediate action in
case the whereabouts of the accused is ascertained, the delay
necessary to procure a preliminary requisition might often result in the defeat of justice.
In .Katne's case, 14 How 103, 129, this court was nearly
equally divided upon the question whether a preliminary manSo long as Mr. Jusdate from the executive was necessary

GRIN v. SHINE.
Opinion of the Court.

tice Nelson, who thought such mandate necessary, remained
upon the bench his opinion was followed in the Second Circuit,
In re Henawh, 5 Blatch. 414, In re Farez, 7 Blatch. 34, 45,
but since that time a different view has been taken of the question. In re.Aaccdonne, 11 Blatch. 79 In re Thomas, 12 Blatch.
370. Judge Lowell's opinion accorded with the later,-and, as
we think, the sounder view, -7n re Feley, 2 Lowell, 339. See
also Be2von N. .Mcfaon, 127'U S. 457.
9. It is again objected that the facts set forth in the-record
show that defendant, if guilty at all, is guilty of larceny and
not of embezzlement, and that as the laws of California. make
a clear distinction between embezzlement and larceny, he cannot be held for one crime upon proof of his guilt of the other.
The charge set forth in the complaint is that Zeefo, one of the
members of the firm of- E. L. Zeefo & Co., entrusted and delivered a cheque for the money to Grin, who subsequently received the money from the bank to take it to the Yladikavkaz
Railway Company, by which it was to be taken to Novorosseesk,
and upon the same day absconded. Upon these facts it is insisted that the defendant had nothing more than the bare custody, as distinguished from the possession of the money, and
therefore could not and did not embezzle it, but stole it.
By section 503 of the Penal Code of California "embezzlement
is the fraudulent appropriation of property by a person to whom
it has been entrusted," and by section 508, "every clerk, agent,
or servant of, any person who fraudulently appropriates to his
own use .
any property of another which has come
into his control or care by virtue of his employment as such
clerk, agent, or servant, is guilty of embezzlement." As Grin
was clerk of the firm, and as the money was delivered to him
in his capacity as clerk for 'a special purpose, it certainly came
into his control or care. We do not care to inquire into the
soundness of the distinction made in some of the older. cases
between the custody and possession of property, because under
the section above quoted nothing more is necessary to constitute embezzlement than that the party charged should have the
control or care of the money
The cases in California upon this subject are decisive. Thus,

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

in E vparte Hedky, 31 California, 108, where the agent of an
express company, authorized to draw telegraphic cheques on his
principal for money to be used in the principal's business, but
not to draw individual cheques, drew certain cheques as agent
for money to be used in his private business, and the principal
paid the money to the drawee, it was held to amount to a receipt of the money of the principal by the agent "in the course
of his employment." It was further held that, in order to conviet one of embezzling money of his principal, it was necessary
to establish four propositions First, that the accused was an
agent, second, that he received money belonging to his principal, third, that he received it in the course of his employment,
fourth, that he converted it to his own use with intent to steal
the same. In People v Tomlinson, 102 California, 19, a recent
case upon the same subject, the law of California was summed
up as follows "Where one honestly receives the possession of
goods upon a trust, and after receiving them fraudulently converts them to his own use, it is a case of embezzlement.
But, where the possession has been obtained through a trick or
device, with the intent, at the time the party receives it, to convert the same to ls own use, and the owner of the property parts
merely with the possession and not with the title, the offence is
larceny"
These cases are strictly in line with that of -Moore v United
Sates, 160 U. S. 268, in which we held that "embezzlement is
the fraudulent appropriation of property by a person to whom
such property has been entrusted, or into whose hands it has
lawfully come. It differs from larceny in the fact that the
original tking of the property was lawful, or with'the consent
of the owner, while in larceny the felonious intent must have
existed at the time of the taking."
The cases relied upon by the petitioner are of the -latter description. Thus in People v Abbott, 53 California, 284-, defendant was instructed by a bank to purchase silver for its account,
and, to provide him with funds, the bank certified and delivered
him a cheque drawn by him on the bank. He did not purchase
the silver, but used the cheque for his own purposes. It was
held that, if he took the custody of the certified cheque with

KNIGHTS TEMPLARS' INDEMNITY CO. v. JARMAN. 197
'Syllabus.

the intention of stealing it, he was guiltylof larceny The question was treated as one for the jury In People v Raschke, 73
California, 378, it was held that if one, through false representations, obtains the possession of personal property with the
consent of the owner, but without a change of the general title,,
he is.guilty of larceny, upon subsequently converting the same.
to his own use, if he had the felonious intent to steal the property at the time the possessionxiyas obtained. The authority of
these cases is not questioned. In the case under consideration,
a cheque was delivered to the petitioner with instructions to
draw the money from the bank, take it to the railway station,
to be forwarded to another city The facts show that he obtained possession of both the cheque and the money, honestly,
and with the consent of his principal, and -subsequently converted it to-his own use. Puzma fame, at least, this makes a
case of embezzlement, and if there were m fact an original intent to steal, that is a question for a jury in a Russian court to
pass upon. It is sufficient for the purposes of this proceeding
that apmmezfaci case of embezzlement is made out.
This disposes of all the questions made in the brief, and the
judgment of the Circuit Court is

-Afflmed.

KNIGHTS TEMPLARS' AND MASONS' LIFE INDEMNITY COMPANY v. JARMAN.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS, FOR THE EIGHTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 48. Argued October 17, 902.-Decided December 8, 1902.

1. That section of the Revised Statutes of Missouri declaring that in all suits
upon policies of life insurance it shall be no defence that the insured
committed suicide, applies not only to cases where the insured takes his
own life voluntarily and in full possession of his mental faculties, but to
all cases of self-destruction by the insured, whether sane or insane, unless he contemplated suicide at the time he made his application for .the
policy.

