REID v. JONES.
Counsel for Parties.

to citizens of. other States. Kimmh v. Ball, 129 U. S. 217,
222.
The principle is universal that legislation, whether by Congress or by a State, must be taken to'be valid, unless the contrary is made clearly to appear, and as the contrary does not
so appear, the statute of Colorado-is to 'be taken as a constitutional exercise of the-power of the State.
Perceiving no error in the judgment to the prejudice of the
plaintiff under the Constitution of the United States, the judgment is

Afrmed.
MR. JlxsTIoE BREwR dissented from the opinion and judgment of the court.

RED) v. JONES.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF COLORADO.
iNo. 147. Argued October 24, 1902.-Decided December 1,1902.-

One convicted in a State court for an alleged violation of the criminal
statutes of the State, and who contends that he is held in violation of
the Constitution of.the United States, must ordinarily first take his case
"
to the highest court of the State, in which the 5udgment could be rewrit
of
by
viewed, and thence bring it, if-unsuccessful there,to tins court
error.

.THE case isstated in the opinion of the court.
HDenwon and Mr William M. S'pwwger for ap.M' Johnff.
pellant,
Charles C.
.M" .Federic . .a.cenney for appellee. .r
with him
was
of
Colorado,
State
of.
the
Post,attorney general
on the brief.

O6TOBER TERM, 190-2.
Opinion of the Court.

XR[.

JusTICE

EIAXLAw

"

delivered the opinion of the court.

After the appellant Reid had been convicted and sentenced,
as shown in the case just decided, he was arrested upon a mittimus sued out by the State. He immediately obtained a writ
of khaeas.corpu8 from the Circuit Court of the United States
for tha District of Colorado. But that court, upon hearing,
remanded the.prisoner to the custody of the State authorities,
and dismissed his application to be discharged. He thereupon
prayed and was allowed an appeal to thi court.
The merits of This case hav been frlly considered in case
No. 269, Reid v Colorado,ante, 137. But if this had not been,
we should dismiss the present appeal; for, one convicted in a
State court for an alleged violatioi of the criminal statutes of
the State, and who contends that he is held in violation of the
Constitution of the United States, must ordinarily first take his
case to the highest court of the State, in which the judgment
could bqreviewed, and thence bring it, if unsuccessful there, to
this court by writ of error; ,that only m certain exceptional
cases, of ivhich the present is not one, will a Circuit Court of
the United States, or this court. upon appeal from a Circuit
,Court, intervene by writ of haleas corpus in advance of the
final action by the highest court of the State. Exparte Ryall,
inne117 U. S.241, 251 ; New York v Eno, 155 U S. 89 ;o._
epta v Brundage, 180 U. S.499, 502, and authorities cited.
The judgment is
Affirmed.

