DREYER r -ILLINOIS.
Syllabus.

be absurd to send the case back to be removed for the purpose
of being remanded, and we are obliged to deal with the record
as it is. Nor was the evidence introduced on plaintiff's behalf,
and demurred to, made part of the record, and the bare fact
that the trial court held it insufficient to justify a verdict
against the Terminal Company was not conclusive of bad faith.
The trial court may have erred in its ruling, or there may haye
been evidence which, though insufficient to sust.in a verdict,
would have shown that plaintiff had reasonable ground for a
bona ide belief in the liability of both defendants. In these
circumstances, the case comes within Smithson v WF/zcomb,
and the judgment must be
4ffir ned.

DREYER v. ILLINOIS.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF ILLINOIS.

No. 37. Argued and submitted April 18, 1902.-Decided, November 10, 1902.
Dreyer was convicted in a state court of Illinois for having failed to turn
over, as required by statute, to his successor in office, certain revenues,
bonds, funds, warrants and personal property, that came into his hands
as Treasurer of aBoard of Public Park Cmmissioners. The judgment of
conviction was affirmed by the Supreme Court of Illinois, and the accused
was sentenced to the penitentiary.
By a statute of Illinois it was provided: "When the jury retire-to consider
of their verdict, in any criminal case, a constable or other officer shall
be sworn or affirmed to attend the jury to some private and convenient
place, and to the best of his ability keep them together without meat or
drink (water excepted) unless by leave of court, until they shall have
agreed upon their verdict, nor suffer others to speak to, them, and that
when they shall have agreed upon their verdict he will return them into
court." In this case the statute was not complied with, but objection
on that ground was first made on a motion for new trial.
The accused in this case was sentenced to the penitentiary, and the warden
was commanded to confine him in safe and secure custody, from and
after the delivery thereof, " until discharged by the State Board of, Pardons, as authorized and directed by law, provided such term of impris-

OCTOBER T'ERM, 1902.
Syllabus.
onment in said penitentiary shalt not exceed the maximum term for the
crime for which the said defendant was convicted and sentenced,." The
sentence was based upon a statute of Illinois, approved April 21, 1899,
and known as the Indeterminate Sentence Act. By that statute it was
provided: " Whenever it shall be made to appear to the satisfaction of the
State Board of Pardons from the warden'sreport or from other sources,
that any prisoner has faithfully served the term of his parole, and the
board shall be of the opinion that such prisoner can safely be trusted to
be at liberty and that his final release will not be incompatible with the
welfare of society, the State Board of Pardons shall have the power to
cause to be entered of record in its office an order discharging such prisoner for,, or on account of, his conviction, which said order, when approved by the Governor, shall operate as a complete discharge of such
prisoner in the nbture of a release or commutation of his sentence, to
take effect immediately upon the delivery of a certified copy thereof to
the prisoner, and the clerk of the court in which the prisoner was convicted shall, upon presentation of such certified copy, enter the judgment
of such conviction satisfied and released pursuant to said order. It is
hereby madethe duty of the clerk of the Board of Pardons to send written notice of the fact to the warden of the penitentiary of the proper
district whenever any prisoner on parole isfinally released by said board."
Laws of Il1. 1899, p. 142. Held:
(1) That the ruling that the objection as to non-compliance with the
statute requiring the jury to be placed in charge of a sworn
officer, was not made in time and was to be deemed as waived,
presented no question of a Federal nature, but was an adjudication simply of a question of criminal and local'law, and did not
impair the constitutional guaranty that no State shall deprive
any person of liberty without due process of law.
(2) The objection that the act of 1899 conferred upon executive orministerial officers powers of a judicial nature, did not present any
question under the due-process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. Whether the legislative, executive and judicial powers
.of a State sha1 be kept altogether distinct and separate, or
whether persons or collections of persons belonging to one department may, in respect to some matters, exert powers which,
strictly speaking, pertain to another department of government, is
for the determination of the State. And its determination one
way. or the other cannot be an element in the inquiry whether
the due process of law prescribed by the Fourteenth Amendment
has been respected by the State or its representatives when dealing with matters involving life or liberty.
(3) If the jury in a criminal cause be discharged by the court becauseof
their being unable to agree upon a verdict, the accused, if tried a
second time, cannot ,be said to have been put twice in jeopardy
of life or limb, whether regard be had to the Fifth or the Fourteenth Amendment.

DREYER9'. ILLINOIS.

---3-

Statement of the Case.

By an indictment returned in the Criminal Court of Cook
County, Illinois, on the 4th day ofFebruary, 1899, the plaintiff
in error Dreyer was charged with the offence of haying failed
to turn over to his successor in office, as treasuyer of the West
Chicago Park Commissioners, revenues, bonds, funds, warrants
and personal property that came to his hands as such treasurer,
of the value of $316,013.40- said Commissioners constituting
a Board of Public Park Commissioners appointed by the Governor and confirmed by the Senate of Illinois, and as such having the supervision of the public parks and boulevards in the
town of West Chicago and authority under the law to collect
and disburse moneys, bonds, etc., for their maintenance.
The indictment was -based on section 215 of the Criminal
Code of Illinois, which is asf01lows
"If any state, county, town, municipal or other officer or person, who now is or hereafter may be authorized by law to collect,
receive, safely keep or disburse any money, revenue, bonds, mortgages, coupons, bank bills, notes, warrants or dues, or other funds
or securities belonging to the State, or any county, township, incorporated city, town or village, or any state institution, or an v
canal, turnpike, railroad, school or college fund, or the fund of
any public improvement that now is or may hereafter be authorized by law to be made, or any other fund now in being or
that may hereafter be established by law for public purposes
or belonging to any insurance or other company or person, required or authorized by law to be placed in fhe keeping of any
such officer or person, shall fail or refuse to pay or deliver over
-the same when required by law, or demand is made by his successor m office or trust, or the officer or person to whom the same
should be paid or delivered over, or his agent or attorney, authorized in writing, he shall be imprisoned in the penitentiary
not less than one 'nor more than ten years Provded, Such demand need not be made when, from the absence or fault of the
offender, the same cannot conveniently be made Andnrovnded,
That no person shall be committed to the penitentiary under
this section unless the money not paid over shall amount to one
hundred dollars, or if it appear that such failure or refusal is
occasioned by unavoidable loss or accident. Every person con-

OCTOBER TERMI, 1902.
Counsel for Parties.

victed under the provisions of this section shall forever thereafter be ineligible and disqualified from holding any office of
honor or profit in this State." Hurd's Revised Statutes, 1901,
p. 630, ยง 215.
A trial was commenced on the 29th day of August, 1899,
and a jury was empaneled and evidence heard. The jury not
having agreed upon a verdict were discharged.
A second trial was begun on the 19th day of February, 1900.
The defendant filed a plea of once in jeopardy, which in substance averred that it was not true, as recited in the order of
court at the previous'tlal, that the jury were unable to agree
upon a verdict, also, that the discharge of the jury was without the defendant's assent, was against his objections made at
the time, and was without any moral or physical necessity justifying such a course on the part of the trial court.
On motion of the State, the plea of former jeopardy was
stricken from the files, the defendant at the time excepting to
the action of the court.
There was a second trial which resulted in the defendant being
found "guilty of failure to pay over money to his successor in
office, in manner and form as charged in the indictment," the
jury stating in the verdict that the amount not paid over was
$316,000, and imposing the punishment of confinement in the
penitentiary
The defendant upon written gr6unds filed moved for a new
trial, and also moved in arrest of judgment. Both motions
were overruled, and it was ordered and adjudged that the defendant be sentenced to the penitentiary "for the crime of
failure to pay over money to his successor in office, whereof he
stands convicted."
The judgment of the trial court having been affirmed by the
Supreme Court of Illinois, the case is here upon writ of error
allowed by the Chief 'Justice of that court.
X2, Afr'ed S. Aust an, for plaintiff in error. .ie T A.
Aforan and 3&f Levy Mfayer were with him on the brief.
.Mr IT .T Hfamlin, attoiney general of the State of Illinois,

DREYER v ILLINOIS.
Opinion of the Court.

.fr Mkarles S. .Deneen and .ii& A. 0. Barnes for defendants
in error.
MR. TUSTiCE HARLAN, after stating the facts as above reported,
delivered the opinion of the court.

It is contended that the judgment of the Supreme Court of
Illinois, affirming the judgment in the present case of the Criminal Court of Cook County, in that State, denied to the plaintiff in error certain rights secured to him by the Constitution
of the United States, particularly by the clause of the Fourteenth Amendment forbidding a State to deprive any person
of liberty without due process of law
The defendant insists thaf three questions, involving rights
secured by the Constitution of the United States, are presented
by the assignments of error.
1. The first of those questions, as. stated by his counsel, relates to the alleged "omission to swear the baliffs in the manner
prescribed by the common law and the statutes of the State of
Illinois before the jury retired to consider of their verdict."
This point will be first examined.
The Criminal Code of Illinois provides "When the jury
retire to consider of their verdict in any criminal case, a constable or other officer shall be sworn or affirmed to attend the
jury to some private and convenient place, and to the best of
his ability keep them together without meat dr drink (water excepted), unless by leave of the court, until they shall have agreed
upon their verdict, nor suffer others to speak to them, and that
when they shall have agreed upon their verdict he will return
them into court Provided, In cases of misdemeanor only, if
the prosecutor for the people and the person on trial by himself or counsel, shall agree, which agreement shall, be entbred
upon the minutes of the court, to dispense with the attendance
of an officer upon the jury, or that the jury, when they have
agreed.upon their verdict, may write and seal the same, and
after delivering the same to the clerk, may separate, it shall be
lawful for the court to carry into effect any such agreement,
and receive any such verdict so delivered to the clerk as the

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the'Court.

lawful verdict of such jury"
-435.

Hurd's Rev Stat. Ill. 1901, p. 660,

iReferring to this section the Supreme Court, in the present
case, said that it was reversible error in a trial for a felony to
allow the jury to retire -for the purpose of considering their verdict without being placed in charge of a sworn officer as required
by the statute-citing Jlofnityre v. People,38 Illinois, 514, 518,
Leww v. People,44 Illinois, 452, 454, Sanders v .Peaple, 124
Illinois, 218, and -Farleyv People, 138 Illinois, 97. In Lewi v.
People,just cited, the court observed that the provisions of the
above section "sho w the great care and solicitude of the General
Assembly to secure to every person a fair and impartial trial, and
it is eminently proper, as in many cases the accused is imprisoned, and it is not in his power to protect his rights from being
'prejudiced by undue influences. It should ever be the care of
courts of justice to guard human life and liberty against being
sacrificed by public prejudice or excitement. The jury should
be entirely. free from all outside influences from the time they
are empaneled until they return, their verdict and it is accepted
and they discharged, and the legislature have determined that
the -provisions of this statute are necessary to accomplish the
object. It is a provision easily complied with, and one member
of the court, at least, has nevek in practice seen it dispensed
with, except in cases, of misdemeanor. The provisions of the
statute are qlear, explicit and peremptory We know of no
power short of its repeal, to dispense with this requirement."
But the court further said "The point of controversy in the
present case is not, however, whether it is reversible error to
fail to comply with the statute, but whether .the question is
properly raised upon this record. No objection or exception
was taken ,y the defendant, ,at the time of the retirement of
the jury, that the officers in charge of it were not sworn, bnt
the question was-raised by hin for the first time on his motion
for new trial, one of the grounds of that motion being ' that
when the jury retired to consider of their verdict-in said case
no constable or other officer was sworn or affirmed to attend
the jury, in manner and form as provided by the statute of the
Stath of Illinois.'
Affidavits made by the bailiffs them-

DREYER- v. ILLINOIS.
Opinon of the Court. _

selves, and by- an assistant of the prosecuting attorney, who
participated-n the trial, tend to prove that the oath administered was in the statutory form, but these affidavits also show
that the only-oath administered to them was on the 21st day of
February, immediately after the empaneling and swearing of
the jury It is shown by the bill of exceptions that the trial
was not concluded and the jury finally sent out until February 28th, so that even by the proof made on behalf of the people
the only oath taken by the bailiffs was some six days prior to
their retirement with the jury, and prior to the introduction of
evidence and the subsequent steps of the trial. This cannot be
held to be a compliance with the requirement of the statute
that 'when the jury shall retire to consider of their verdict,'
etc., 'a constable or other officer shall be sworn,' etc. To swear
the bailiffs immediately upon the jury being swrn, and prior
to the introduction of the evidence, the arguments of counsel
and instructions of the court-six or seven days prior to the
retirement of the jury to consider of their veidict-would be
little less-than farcical."
It was, however, held, that under the principles established
by former decisions in Illinois, the requirement of the statute
could be waived by the accused, and that his failure to object
at the tume that the officer having charge of the jury was not
sworn when the jury retired was equivalent to a waiver of
compliance with its provisions. And' it was adjudged "that
the question whether or not, upon the 'retir~ment of the jury
to consider of its 'verdict, it was placed in charge of a constable,.or other officer, sworn to attend it, as prescribed by statute, is not properly raised by the record [of this case] and
therefore [is] not available as error m this court."
It thus appears that while the state court expressly recognized *the rights of the accused under the statute it adjudged
that he -had not properly raised on the record:the question
raised for the first time on motion for a new trial as to noncompliance with its provisions. But manifestly this decision
presents no question of a Federal nature. A ruling to the effect that the accused shall be deemed to have waived compliance with the statute if the record does not show that he

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinon of the Court.

objected at the time to the action of the court, was an adjudication simply of a question of criminal practice and local law,
was not in derogation of the substantial right recognized by
the statute, and did not impair the constitutional guaranty that
no State shall deprive any person of liberty without due process
of law We cannot perceive that such a decision by the highest court of the State brings the case upon this point within the
Fourteenth Amendment, even if it should be assumed that the
due process of law prescribed by that Amendment required that
a jury in a felony case should be placed in charge of an officer
especially sworn ,at the time to attend and keep them together
until. they returned their, verdict or were discharged.
We adjudge that in holding that the record did not sufficiently present for consideration the question now raised, the
state court, even if it erred in its decision, did not infringe any
right secured to the defendant by the Constitution of the Uinted States.
2. Another question which counsel for the defendant contends
is raised by the assignments of error relates to the final judgnent of the Criminal Court of-Cook County It was adjudged
by the trial court that. the defendant be taken to the penitentiary of the State, at Joliet, and delivered to its warden or keeper,
who was required and commanded to "confine him in said penitentiary, in safe and secure custody, from and after the delivery thereof, until discharged by the State Board of Pardons,
as authorizedand directedby law, provded such term of vnprsonment n sad penitentiary shall not exceed the maxmium terra
for the crme for which the said defendant weis convicted and
sentenced."
The judgment was in conformity with a statute of Illinois
approved April 21, 1899, entitled "An act to revise the law in
relation to-the sentence and commitment of prisoners convicted
of crime, and providing for a system of parole," etc. The statute is sometimes referred to as the Indeterminate Sentence Act
of Illinois, and as its validity under the Constitution of the United States is assailed its provisions must be examined.
That statute provides that every male person over twenty
years of age, and every female person over eighteen years of

DREYER v. ILLINOIS.
Opimon-of the Court.

age, convicted of a felony or other crime punishable by imprisonment in the penitentiary, except treason, murder, rape and
kidnapping, shall be sentenced to the penitentiary, the court
imposing the sentence to fix its limit or duration, the term of
such imprisonment not to be less than one year, nor exceeding
the maximum term provided by law for the crime of which the
prisoner wasconvicted, making allowance for good time, as provided by law ยง1.
It was made the duty of. each board of -penitentiary commissioners to adopt such rules concerning prisoners committed to
their custody as would prevent them from returning to criminal
courses, best secure their self-support, and accomplish their reformation. To that end it provided that whenever any-prisoner
was received into the penitentiary the warden should cause to
be entered in a register the date of his admission, the name,
nativity, nationality,.with such other facfs as could be ascertained, of parentage, education, occupation and early social influences as seemed to indicate the constitutional and acquired
defects and tendencies of the prisoner, and, based upon these,
an estimate of his then present condition, and the best probable
plan of treatment. And the physician of the penitentiary was
required to carefully examine each prisoner when received and
enter in a register the name, nationality-or race, the weight, stature and family historiy of each prisoner, also a statement of the
condition of the heart, lungs and other leading organs, the rate
of the pulse and respiration, and the measurement of the chest
and abdomen, and any existing disease ,or deformity, or other
disability, acquired or inherited. Upon the warden's register
was to be entered firom time to time minutes of observed improvement or deterioration of character, and notes as to the
method and treatment employed, also all alterations affecting
the standing or situation of the prisoner, and ,any subsequent
facts or personal history brought officially to his knowledge
bearing upon the question of the parole or final release of the
prisoner, and it was. the duty of the. warden, or, in his absence,
the deputy warden; of each penitentiary to attend each meeting. of the Board of Pardons,held at the penitentiary of which
lie was warden, for the purpose of examining prisoners as to

OCTOBER 'TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

their fitness for parole. He shall advise with that Board concermng each case, and furnish it with his opinion, in writing,
as to the fitness of each prisoner for parole whose case the board
considered. And it was made the duty of every public-officer
to whom inquiry was addressed by the clerk of the Board of
Pardons, concerning any prisoner, to give the board all information possessed or accessible to him, which might throw light upon
the question of the fitness of the prisoner to receive the bene-fits of parole. ยง2.
It was made the-duty of the judge before whom any prisoner
was convicted, and. also the Stafe's Attorney, of the county in
which he was convicted, to furmsh the board of penitentiary
commissioners an official statement of the facts and circumstances constituting the crime whereof the prisoner was convicted, together with all other information accessible to them
in regard to the career of the prisoner prior to the time of the
committal of the crime of which he was convicted, relative to
his habits, associates, disposition-and reputation, and any other
facts and circumstances tending to throw any light upon the
question.as-to whether such prisoner was capable of again becoming a law-abiding citizen. ยง3.
Other sections of the statute are as follows
"14..The said Board of Pardons shall have power to establish
rules and regulations under which prisoners in the penitentiary
may be allowed to go upon parole outside of the penitentiary
building and enclosure Provided, That no prisoner shall be
released from either penitentiary on parole until the State Board
of Pardons or the warden of said penitentiary shall have made
arrangements, or shall have.satisfactory evidence that arrangemelits have been made, for his honorable and useful employment while upon parole in some suitable occupation, and also
for a proper and suitable home, free from criminal influences,
and xithopt expense.to the State And, prowdedfurt]her, That
all prisoners temporarily'so released upon parole shall, at all
.times, until the receipt of -their final discharge, be considered ii
the legal custody of the warden of the penitentiary from.which
they were paroled, and shall, during the said time, be considered
as remaining under conviction for the crime of .which they were

DREYER v. ILLINOIS.
Opimon of the Court.

convicted and entenced and subject at any time to be taken back
within the enclosure of said penitentiary, and full power. to en*force such rules'and regulations and to retake and reimprison any
'inmate so upon parole is hereby conferred upon the warden of
said penitentiary, ihose order or writ, certified by the clerk of
-said penit~ntiary, with the seal of the institution attached, and
directed to all sheriffs, coroners, constables, police officers, or to
any particular person named in said order or writ, shall be sufficient warrant for the officer or other person named therein
.to authorize said officer or.-person to arrest- and deliver to the
warden of said -penitentiary the body of the conditionally releasedor paroled prisoner named in said~writ, and it is hereby
made the duty of all sheriffs, coroners, constables, police bfficers
or other persons named therein -to execute said order or writ
the same as other criminal !process. In case any prigoner so
conditionally released or paroled shall flee beyond the limit of
the- State, he may be -returned pursuant fo the provisions of -the
law of this State relating, to fugitives from justice. It shall
be the duty of the warden, immediately upon the return of any
conditionally released or paroled prisoner, to make report of
the same to the State Board of Pardons, giving the reasons for
the return of said paroled prisoner: Prowdedfarter,That the
State Board. of Pardons may, in its discretion, permit any prisoner to temporarily and conditionally depart from such penitentiary on parole and go to some county in the State named
and there remain withni the limits of the county, and not to
depart from the same without' written authority from said
board, for such length of time as the board may determine, and
upon the further condition that such prisoner shall, during the
time of his parole, be and continuously remain a law abiding
citizen, of industrious.and temperate habits, and report to the
sheriff of the county on the first day of each month, giving a
-particular account of his conduct during the month and it shall
be the duty of such sheriff to investigate such report and ascer--tarn what has been- the habits and conduct of such prisoner
during the time covered by such report, and to transmit such
report upon blanks furnished him by the warden of the pemtentiary, to said warden within five days after the receipt of
VOL. OLxxXv -6

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

such prisoner s report, adding to such report the sheriff's statement as to the truth of the report so made to him by the prisoner. It shall also be the duty of such sheriff to keep secret
the fact that such prisoner is a paroled prsoner, and in no case
divulge such fact to any person or persons so long as said prisoner obeys the terms and conditions of his parole.
"5. Upon the granting of a parole to any prisoner the
warden shall provide him with suitable clothing, ten dollars
an money, .whlch may be paid him in installments at the discretion of the warden, and shall procure transportation for
him to his place of employment or to the county seateof the
county to which he is paroled.
"6. It shall be, the duty of the warden to keep in communication, as far as possible, with all prisoners who are on parole
from the penitentiary of which he is -the warden, also with
their employers, and when, in his opinion, any prisoner who
has served not less than sLX months of his parole acceptably
has given such evidence as is deemed reliable and trustworthy
that he will remain at liberty without violating the law, and
that his.final release is not incompatible with the welfare of
society, the warden shall make a certificate to that effect to the
State Board of Pardons, and whenever it shall be made to appear to the satisfaction of the State Board of Pardons, from the
warden's report or from other sources, that any prisoner has
faithfully served the term of his parole, and the board shall be of
the opinion that such prisoner can safely be trusted to be at liberty and that his final release will not be incompatible with the
welfare of society, the State Board of Pardons,shal have the
power to cause to be entered of record -n tts ofice an order dichargingsuchprmsonerfor, or on account of,has conviction, which
said order, uhen. approvedby the Governor, shall operate as a
complete discharge of such prmsoner tthe nature of a release or
commutatton of hs sentence, to take efect zanmediately uvon the
delivery of a certifled copy thereof to the prisoner,and the clerk
of the court sn which the prisonerwas convcted shall, upon preon.of such certafted copy, enter the judgment of such consentato
vzction satisfied and released pursuant to said order It is
hereby made the duty of the clerk of the Board of Pardons to

DREYER c. ILLINOIS.
Opinion of the Court.

send written notice of the fact to the warden of the penitentiary of the proper district whenever any prisoner on parole
is finally released by said board." Laws of Ill. 1899, p. 142.
In this connection we are referred to article 3 of the constitution of Illinois, dividing the. powers of government into
three distinct departmients-legislative, executive, judicial-and
providing that "' no-person, or collection of persons, being one of
these departments-shall exercise any power properly belonging
to either of the others, except as hereinafter expressly directed
or permitted," to section 1 of article 6 of the same constitution,
providing that "the judicial powers, except as in this article is
otherwise provided, shall be vested in one Supreme Court, Circuit Courts, county courts, justices of the peace, police magistrates and such courts.as may be created by law in and for
cities and incorporated towns," and to section 13 of article 5,
providing that the pardoning power shall be in the Governor
of the State.
If we do not misapprehend the position of counsel, it is that
the Indeterminate Sentence Act of 1899 is inconsistent with the
above provisions of the state constitution, in that it confers
judicial powers upon a ollection of persons who do not belong
to the judicial department, and, in effect, invests them with the
pardoning power committed by the constitution to the Governor of the State.
We will not stop to consider whether the statute is in conflict
with the provisions of the state constitution to which reference
is here made. We may, however, in passing observe that a
similar statute, previously enacted, was upheld .by the Supreme
Court of Illinois. George v. Thie People,167 Illinois, 441. It is
only necessary now to say that even if the statute in question
were obnoxious to the objection now urged by plaintiff in error,
it would not follow that this court would review a judgment of
the highest court of the State which expressly or by necessary
implication sustained it- as constitutional. A local statute ivesting a collection of persons not of the judicial department,
with powers that are judicial and aRthorizing them to exercise
the pardoning power which alone belongs to the Governor of
the State, presents no question under the Constitution.of the

OCTOBER TIiER3.

1902.

Opinion of the Court.

United States. The right to the due process of law prescribed
by the Fourteenth Amendment would not be infringed by a
local statute of that character. Whether the legislative, executive
and judicial powers of a State shall be kept altogether distinct and
,separate, or whether.persons or collections of persons belonging
to one department may, in respect to some matters, exert
powers which, strictly speaking, pertain to another department
of government, is for the determination of the State. And its
determination one way or the other cannot be an element in
the inquiry whether the due process of law prescribed by the
Fourteenth Amendment-has been respected by the State or its
representatives when dealing with matters involving life or
liberty '1When we speak," said Story, "of a separation of the
three great departments of government, and maintain that that
separation is indispensable to public liberty, we are to understand this maxim in a limited sense. It is not meant to affirm
that they must be kept wholly and entirely separate and distinct, and have. no common link of connection or dependence,
the one upon the other, in the slightest degree. The true meaning is, that the whole power of one of these departments should
not be exercised by the same hands which possess the whole
power of either of the other departments, and that such exercise of the whole would subvert the principles of a free constitution." Story's Const. (5th ed.) 393. Again "Indeed, there
is not a ingle constitution of any State in the Union, which
does not practically embrace some acknowledgment of the
maxim, and at the same time some admixture of poweis constituting an exception to it." Story's Cinst.'(5th ed.) 395.
The objection that the act of 1899 confers upon executive or
ministerial officers powers of a judicial nature- does not, in our
judgment, present any question under the due-process clause of
the Fourteenth Amendment.
3. The remaining contention of the defendant is that, under
the circumstances disclosed by the -record, the second trial of
the case placed- him twice in jeopardy, and therefore the judgment should be reversed.
Under -date of September 1, 1899, the following order was
made of record in the case "This day come the said People,

DREYER" v. ILLINOIS.
Opimon of the Court.

by Charles S. Deneen, State's Attorney, and the said defendant, as well in his own proper person as by his counsel, also
comes, and also come the jurors of the jury aforesaid, and the
aforesaid jury heariiag the arguments of counsel and mstructions of the court, retire in charge of sworn officers to consider
of their verdict." And under date of September 2d, this order
appears "This day come the said -People, by Charles S. Deneen, State's Attorney, and the defendant, as well in his own
proper person as by his counsel, also comes. And also come
the jurors of the jury-aforesaid, being now returned into court,
an4 6eing unable to agree upon a verdi't, are thereion by order
of thws courtdi~chargedfroin.furtherconszderationof thms cause."
It seems to be undisputed that the case was-submitted to the
jury at four o'clock in-the afternoon -and that the jury having
retired tQ consider. of their verdict were kept together until
nine o'clock and thirtyminutes in the morning of the succeeding day, when they were 'inally discharged from any further
consideration of the case.
The contention is that, notwithstanding the recital in the
.record that the jury were discharged by the court.because they
were unable to agree upon a verdict, such discharge was without moral or physical "necessity and operated as an acquittal of
the defendant.
Upon the face of the question under examination the inquiry
might arise whether the due process 4f law required by the
Fourteenth Amendment protects one accused of crime from
being put twice in jeopardy of life or limb. In other words, is
the right.not to be put twice in jeopardy of life or limb forbidden
by the Fourteenth Amendrent, or, so far as the Constitution of
the United States is concerned, is it'forbidden only by the Fifth
Amendment which prior to the adoption of _the Fourteenth
Amendment had been held as restricting only the powers of thq
National Government and its agencies?
We pass -this, important question without any consideration
of it upon its merits, and content ourselves with referring to
the decision of this court.in United States v Perez, 9 Wheat.
579. That was a.capital case-in wvhich without the. consent of
the prisoner or of the attorney of the United States, the jury

OCTOBER TERMA,

1902.

Opnion of the Court.

being unable to agree were discharged by the court from giving
any verdict-this court, speaking by Mr. Justice Story, said
"We are of opinion, that the facts constitute no legal bar to a
future trial. The prisoner has not been convicted or acquitted,
and may again be put upon his defence. We think, that in all
cases of this nature, the law has invested courts of justice with
the authority to discharge a jury from giving any verdict whenever, in their opinion, taking all the circumstances into consideration, there is a manifest necessity for the act, or the ends
of public .justice would otherwise be defeated. They are to
exercise a sound discretion on the subject, and it is impossible
to define all the circumstances, which would render it proper to
interfere. To be sure, the power ought to be used with the
greatest caution, under urgent circumstances, and for very plain
and obvious causes, and, in capital cases especially, courts
snould be extremely careful how they interfere with any of the
chances of life, in favor of the prisoner. But, after all, they
have the right to order the discharge, and the security which
the public have for the faithful, sound, and conscientious exercise of this discretion, rests, in this, as in other cases, upon the
-responsibilityof the judges, under their oaths of office. We are
aware that there is some diversity of opinion and practice on
this subject; in the American courts, but, after weighing the
question with due deliberation, we are of opinion, that such a
discharge constitutes no bar to further proceedings, and gives
no right of exemption to the prisoner from being again put
upon trial." If the due process of law required by the Fourteenth Amendment embraces the guarantee that no person shall
be put tvice in jeopardy of life or limb-upon which question
we need not now express an opinion-what was said in United
States v Perez is applicable to this case upon the prese. t writ
of error and is adverse to the contention of the accused that he
was put twice in jeopardy
The principles settled in United Stateg v. Perez, we may remark, were reaffirmed in Er pa te -Lange,18 Wall. 163, 175,
Simmons v United States, 142 U. S. 148, logan v. United
States, 144 U S. 263, Thomprson v United States, 155 U. S. 271,
274.

IOWA v. ROOD.
-1

Syllabus.

The conclusion is, that thejudgment of the Supreme Court
of Illinois did not deny to the plaintiff in error any right secured
by the Constitution of the United States, and is therefore
Affirmed.

IOWA '. ROOD.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF IOWA.
No. 9. Argoed October 14,15, 1902.-Decided November 17,1902.
Where the title claimed by the State of Iowa to land formerly the bed of
a lake rested solely upon the proposition that the State became vested,
upon its admission into the Union, with sovereignty over the beds of all
lakes within its borders, and upon the act of the General Government in
meandering such lakes and excluding from its survey of public lands all
such as lay beneath their waters, and the Supreme Court of the State
has decided adversely to the State and in favor of one who claimed
under the act of Congress of September 28, 1850, known as the swamp
land act, there is no question involving the validity of any treaty or statute of the United States or the constitutionality of any state statute or
authority which gives this court jurisdiction.
Neither article III of the treaty with France ceding Louisiana, article IV,
section 3, of the Constitution of the United States, nor the act of Congress of 1846, admitting the State of Iowa into the Union on an equality
with the original States, has even a remote bearing upon the question of
title of the State of Iowa to the land beneath its lakes.
The mere fact that the plaintiff in error asserts title under a clause of the
Constitution or an act of Congress, or that such act or a patent of the
United States appears in the chain of title, does not constitute such a
right, title or immunity as to give the Federal courts jurisdiction, unless
there is either a plausible foundation for such claim, or the title involves
the construction of the act,or the determination of the rights of the
party under it.
The action of the government surveyors in segregating and setting apart
the lakes in question by meander lines from the public lands and the
approval of such survey by the Commissioner of the General Land Office
was not an adjudication by the Government of the United States by its
duly authorized officers and agents, that the lake so segregated and set

