WESTERN UNION TEL. CO. V'. NEW HOPE.

419

Statement of the Case.

titles to property could vest, and the wills therefore stand as
if they contained only the bequests to the legatees stibsequently
named."
The result is that the property passed under the will to the
Home, and neither the next of kin of -the mother nor the next
of kin of the son can defeat its destination.
[Die decree of the Court of Afppeals ts 'eversed and the caume
remanded with a direct-n to afrn the decree of the Suj)reme Court.

WESTERN UNION TELEGR APH COMPANY-v. BOROUGH OF NEW HOPE.
-ERROR TO THE SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF PENNSYLVANIA.
No. let.

Argued December 2, 3, 1i02.-Decided January 5, 1903.

An ordinance of the borough of New Hope, Pennsylvania, imposing an annual license fee of one dollar per pole and two dollars and a half per mile
of wilrb o the'telegraphb, telephone and electric light poles within the
limits of the borough is not a tax on the property of the telegraph company ownimng the poles and wires, or on its transmission of messages or
on its receipts for such transmission, but is a charge in the enforcement
of local governmental supervision, and as such is not in itself obnoxious
to the coinmece clause of the Federal Constitution.
As the elements entering into such a charge are various, and as in this case
the courts of Pennsylvania have decided that the charge imposed by the
ordinance is reasonable in the circumstances and the ordinance valid, this
court does not feel justified in holding that conclusion to be so manifestly
erroneous as to require revision.

By an ordinance passed in 1894, the borough of New Hope,
Pennsylvania, imposed an annual license fee of one dollar per
pole and two dollars and a half per mile of wire on the telegraph, telephone, and electric light poles and wires within its
limits. The Western Union Teleoraph Company had constructed prior thereto and bad ince maintained and operated a
line of telegraph poles and wires through the borough, and this
was an action brought in the Court of Common Pleas of Bucks

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Statement of the Case.

County, in that State, against the company to recover license
fees for the four years commencing with 1895. The case came
on for trial before the court and a jury, and plaintiff put in evidence the ordinance in question, and it was agreed "between
the parties that for the year beginning October 1, 1895, there
were seventy-five poles and twenty miles of wire, and for the
three succeediihg years, beginning October 1, 1896, there were
thirty-six poles and twelve miles of wire maintained by the defendant in said borough." Plaintiff then rested, and defendant
offered evidence tending to show that the wires were used as
through wires, for the transmission of messages between the
different States, and the United States and foreign countries;
that the company had no office at New Hope, which it operated
itself, but that the Philadelphia and Reading Railroad Company handled the business there, and transferred it to the Western Union at Philadelphia, that no part of the business that
went to or from New Iope went over these lines of wires and
poles, and that the local business handed to the Western Union
at Philadelphia amounted to from about seven to seven and
one half dollars per month. The evidence further tended to
show that the cost value of its lines through New Hope was
about $312, and that the cost of inspection, repairs and maintenance of the plant of the company had averaged for thirteen
years one dollar and forty-nine and one half cents per wire per
annum, that since October, 1891, the borough had not expended
any money on account of the poles and wires of the company;
that its expenditures were for repairing streets, street lamps,
moderate sums in payment of official services, etc., and that
when on holidays the burgess saw fit to appoint a policeman he
often called on the constable, who was generally paid $2.50 per
day A lineman testified that during those years the borough
never did anything, to his knowledge, "in the way of inspecting or repairing or removing or anything else in connection
with the poles and wires of those telegraph companies." Defendant contended, that the requirement of, payment of the license fee in question amounted to a regulation of commerce,
and that the ordinance was therefore void.
The court left it to the jury to find whether the license fee

WESTERN UNION TEL. CO. r'NEW HOPE.

421

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

exceeded what was reasonable under the circumstances. The
jury returned a verdict in favor of the plaintiff, and judgment
was rendered thereon, which on error to the Superior Court
was affirmed. 16 Pa. Superior Ct. Rep. 306. The Supreme
Court of Pennsylvania refused to allow an appeal to that court.
Jifr ,SilasTi .Pettit, for plaintiff in error, with whom Mr.
HI. B. Gill, .M' Robert Xl Yardley, ilf' George H. .Fearons
and AMeswrs.. Bron & TVell8 were on the brief, conceded that
the court below correctly stated the result of the decisions of
the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania, did not argue that the
borough of New Hope might not supervise the location of the
poles erected to sustain the telegraph wires, require them to
be properly painted, and imake such inspection of them as
might be necessary to protect public welfare and for the cost
of such regulation and supervision impose a reasonable license
fee, or in other words, that the municipality might not make a
telegraph company repay to it the expense to which it has been
put by reason of the said telegraph company's occupation of
its highways. They contended, however, that any license fee in
excess of the amount necessary to so reimburse tbe municipality is unreasonable, and is also a tax upon, and regulation of;
the interstate commerce carried on by means thereof, against
which the company can be"protected by the Supreme Court of
the United States.
If the rule adopted by Pennsylvania and put in practice by
numerous of her municipalities should be extended throughout
that State and other States, the aggregate of the-pole and wire
tax thus imposed on telegraph companies would exceed all
other taxation and exceed the net revenue of the companies.
In fact, the total amount of such taxes has now assumed very
grave, proportions and is yearly increasing, and, inasmuch as
the courts of Pennsylvania have imposed no restrictions esta.blished by the authorities in respect to such license charges upon
other lnds of property or occupations, the telegraph company
is helpless, except in so far as the Federal courts will protect it
by establishing some rule to which the municipalities must conform.

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Argument for Plaintiff m Error.

In support of this contention and as to how reasonableness
of charge should be measured, the briefs cited Cooley on
Const. Lim. 4th ed. ยง 201, Cooley on Taxation, 4th ed.
ยง 408, Dillon on Mun. Corp. 4th ed. ยง 768, -Laundry License
Case, 22 Fed. Rep. 701, .Avorth Hudon Bly. Co. v, Hoboken,
41 N. J L. (12 Vroom) 71, Taylor Borough v Postal Tel. Co.,
202 Pa. St. 583, 584. That under the guise of the power to regulate, a city cannot exercise a power to tax State v. Hoboken,
4 Vroom, 280, .New York v Second Ave. R. 1. Co., 32 N. Y.
261, CUnnnati v Bryson, 15 Ohio, 625, Mrays v. Cincinnati, 1 Ohio St. 268, .Dankamv 1ochester, 5 Cowen, 462.
The decisions of this court in regard to the ordinance of the
city of St. Louis were cited as not sustaining the claim of the
borough of New Hope. St. Louwz v ]Vest. Un. Tel. Co., 148
7U. S. 92, 97, 98, affirming 39 Fed. Rep. 59, 149 U. S. 465, 467;
and see also on retrial, 63 Fed. Rep. 68.
The construction and maintenance of telegraph lines within
the State of Pennsylvania having been authorized by the constitution of the State, and the legislature having authorized
the construction of the lines, this authority is all that is
needed, and as the Commonwealth owns the'franchise of every
highway, no mumcipal corporation has any power over the highways not delegated by the State. Citing O' Connor v. Pigsburgh, 18 Pa. St. 187-189, Storrnfelt v .Manor Turnpike Co., 13
Pa. St. 555-559, AMillvale Boro. v Evergreen Ry. Co., 131 Pa.
St. 1-23, 24, Commonwealth v. R. 1. Co., 27 Pa. St. 339-354;
Case of Phila. & Trenton R. R. Co., 36 Pa. St. 318, .Afercer v.
Pittsbwrgh&c. Ry. Co., 36 Pa. St. 99, City of Pittsburgh'sAypeal, 120 Pa. St. 1, JHomestead Street Bly. Co. v Pittsburgh
&c. Bly. Co., 166 Pa. St. 162, 2 Dillon on .un. Corp. 3d ed. 657;
.3illerstown v. Bell, 123 Pa. St. 151, construing act of 1851.
The company should not be obliged to provide an insurance
or guarantee fund to insure the municipality from damages for
which it might be held liable by reason of the construction and
maintenance of the poles and wires, as seemed to be the controlling thought in Chiester City v Jet. Un. Tel. Co., 154 Pa. St.
464, Phila.v. Am. Un. Tel. Co., 167 Pa. St. 406, the municipality cannot be held for such liability, as it cannot exclude

WESTERN UNION TEL. CO. '

NEW -HOPE.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

the company from occupying the highways under the law of
the State. St. Louss v. West. Un. Tel. Co., 148 U. S. 92-98,
Phila.v. W'est. Un. Tel. Co., 40 Fed. Rep. 616.
The Western Union Telegraph Company is engaged in interstate commerce, as was decided by this court in Telegraph Co.
v. Telegraph Co., 96 U. S. 1, and interstate commercecannot be
taxed by the State. Robin8 v Shelby Taxnng -Dtrwt,120
U. S. 489, Asher v. Texas, 128 U. S. 129, Stoutenburgh v Bennwk, 129 U. S. 141, Yo Call v Californza, 136 U. S. 104,
Brennan v. Titusville, 153 U. S. 289. It was held in leloap v. Port of 3obile, 127 U. S. 640, that the Western Union
Telegraph Company could not be made to pay a license tax of
$245 to the city, citing, also, Crutcher v Kentucky, 141 U. S.
47, Hannbal3 & St. J R. 1. Co. v. Husen, 95 U. S. 465, .rinnesota v. Barber, 136 U. S. 313, Bnrnmer v Rebman, 138
U.S. 78, Leslie v Hardin,.135 U. S. 100, Lyng v .Xich'gan,
135 U. S. 161.
It is not legitimate under the guise of an exercise of the
police power to place a burden upon, and a regulation of, the
interstate commerce carried on by the telegraph company
Walling v. Xichsgan, 116 U S. 446-460, Railway Co. v Illinozs, 118 U.S. 557, Leslie v. Hardin, 135 U. S. 100-108,
Crutcher v. Kentucky, 144 U. S. 47-59, Brennan v. Titusville,
153 U. S. 289-302. Brown v. Marylamd, 12 Wheaton, 419-444,
Welton v .Mi.sourt, 91 U. S. 275-278-281, Leloup v. Portof
fobile, 127 U. S. 640, 645, 658, Postal Tel. Co. v Charleston,
153 U. S.692.
A r William C. Ryan, for defendant in error, contended that
the possession of power by the municipality to inspect andl regulate the erection and maintenance of poles and wires in its street
implies a duty to do so, which duty it is presumed it will discharge, and it is therefore empowered to impose license fees to
indemnify it against, or reimburse it for, any expense which may
be incident to such supervision and regulation. The-fees have
not been fixed with reference to the value of the company's property located within the municipal limits of the borough, or the
amount of its gross receipts. Citing as to this and as to meas-

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

ure of reasonableness of charge, Taylor Borough v Postal
Tel. Co., 202 Pa. St. 583, 584, Chester City v West. Up.. Tel. Co.,
154 Pa. St. 466.
Although the business of company is interstate commerce and
the poles and wires are instruments used in the conduct of the
business, such propeity is not exempt from the police regullations of the municipality, which, while it cannot exclude the
poles and wires from the streets, is required by the public welfare to see that they do not become a menace to the safety of
those using the streets as highways. This case is distinguished
from Brown v Maryland, 12 Wheaton, 419, AlIny v. Oalifornu&, 24 How 169, 173, eloup v Portof .folile, 127 U. S. 640,
Brennan v Titusville, 153 U. S. 589.
There is a distinction between regulating interstate commerce
and taxing property engaged in such commerce. State ?rezght
Tax Cases, 15 Wall. 232, PensacolaTel. Co. v West. Un. Te.
CoP 96 U S. 1, Afobile v Kimball, 102 U S. 691; Ifest. Un.
Tel. Co. v Texas, 105 U S. 460, Moran v Yew Orleans, 112
U. S. 69, Gloucester Ferry Co. v Pennaylvanza, 114 U. S.
196. Brown v ffouston, 114 U. S. 622, Walling v -Michigan,
116 U S. 446, Picardv Pulman Southern Car Co., 117 U. S.
34, lMabas By. Co. v Illinois, 118 U S. 557, Robbln8 v.
Shelby Taxzng D-zstrzct, 120 U S. 489, Phila. & S. S. Co. v.
Penna., 122 U S. 326, W est. 17n. Tel. Co. v. Pendleton, 112
U S. 34'7, Battermnan v Wet. Un. Tel. Co., 127 U S. 411,
csetts, 125 U S. 530.
West. U. Tel. Co. v .Afa.qsael
In conclusion the following propositions were submitted
1. That the provsions of the ordinance do not constitute an
attempt on the part of the municipality to regulate or impose a
burden upon interstate comminerce.
2. That the adoption and enforcement of said ordinance is a
lawful exercise of the police power with which said borough is
vested under the constitution and laws of Pennsylvania.
after making the foregoing statement, delivered the opinion of the court.
MR. CHIEF JusTIcE FULLER,

It is conceded that the borough had the right in the exercise

WESTERN UNION TEL. CO. v. NEW HOPE.
Opinion of the Court.

of its police power to impose a reasonable license fee upon telegraph poles and wires within its limits, and that an ordinance.
imposing such fee is to be taken asprzmafaowe reasonable. But
it is insisted that on the evidence in this case the presumption
of reasonableness is rebutted, and that the ordinance as administered is void because a regulation of interstate commerce.
While in the exercise of its control over its streets, it is admitted
that the borough may supervise the location of the poles erected
to sustain the wires of the plaintiff in error, may require them
to be marked, may make such inspection of them as may be
necessary to'protect the public welfare, and may impose a reasonablelicense fee for the cost of such regulation and supervision, and of the-issmng of such permits as may be required for
the enforcement thereof, yet it is contended that if the license
fee turned out to be in excess of the amount necessary to reimburse the municipality the ordinance became unreasonable and
invalid. The Superior Court in its opinion referred to many
decisions of the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania as definitively
establishing, among other propositions, "that in an action to
recover the license fee for a part.cular year, the same being
payable at the beginning of the year, the fact that the borough
or city did not expend money for inspection, supervision, or
police surveillance of the poles and wires in that year is not a
defence," and "that the courts will not declare such ordinance
void because of the alleged unreasonableness of the fee charged,
unless the unreasonableness be so clearly apparent as to demonstrate an abuse of discretion on the part of the muiicipal authorities."- Andit was said that in many of the cases cited the license
fee was the same as that imposed by this ordinance. 16 Superior
Ct. Rep. 309. The Supreme Court affirmed the judgment in a
similar case on the opinion given below in this. 202 Pa. St. 532.
In Chester City v Telegraph Company, 154 Pa. St. 464, in
which it was averred in the affidavit of defence that the rates
charged were at least five times the amount of the expense involved in the supervisfon exercised by the municipality, the
Supreme Court said "For the purposes of this case we must
treat this averment as true, as far as it goes. The difficulty is
it does not go far enough. It refers only to the usual, ordinary

OCTO3ER TERMf,

1902.

Opinion of the Court.

or necessary expense of municipal officers, of issuing licenses
and other expenses thereby imposed upon the municipality It
makes no reference to the liability imposed upon the city by
the erection of telegraph poles. It is the duty of the city to see
that the poles are safe, and properly maintained, and should a
citizen be injured in person or property by reason of a neglect
of such duty, an action might lie against the city for the consequences of such neglect. It is a mistake therefore to measure
the reasonableness of the charge by the amount actually expended by the city for a particular year, to the particular purposes specified in the affidavit."
In Taylor Borough v Telegraph Company, 202 Pa. St. 583,
the Supreme Court said "Clearly the reasonableness of the
fee is not to be measured by the value of the poles and wires
or of the land occupied, nor by the profits of the business. The
elements which enter into the charge are the necessary or
probable expense incident to the issuing of the license and the
probable expense of such inspection, regulation and police surveillance as municipal authorities may lawfully give to the
erection and maintenance of the poles and wires.
Whether or not the fee is so obviously excessive as to lead irresistibly to the conclusion that it is exacted as a return for the
use of the streets, or is imposed for revenue purposes, is a question for the courts and is to be determined upon a view of the
facts, not upon evidence consisting of the opinions of witnesses
as to the proper superwision that the municipal authorities
might properly exercise and the expense of the same." And
see City of Philadelphia v Westerm Urnon Telegraph Company, 89 Fed. Rep. 454.
Concurring in these views in general, we think it would be
going much too far for us to decide that-the test set up by the
plaintiff in error must be necessarily applied, and the ordinance
held void because of failure to meet it. As the Supreme Court
pointed out, the elements entering into the charge are various,
and the Court of Common Pleas, the Superior Court, and the
Supreme Court of Pennsylvania have held it to be reasonable,
and we cannot say that their conclusion is so manifestly wrong
as to justify our interposition.

CARY MFG. CO. v.ACME FLHXIBLE CLASP CO. 427
Opinion of the Court.

This license- fee was not a tax on the property of the company, or on its transmission of messages, or on its receipts from
such transmission, or on its occupation or business, but was a
charge in the enforbenient of local governmental supervision,
and as such not in itself obnoxious to the clause of the Constitution relied on. St. Louz v. Telkgraph Com_pany, 148 U. S.
92, 149 U. S. 465.
Judgment affirned.
MR. JusTiCE WjrrE, MR.
MoR1EiA dissented.

JUSTICE. PECKHA2L

and MR.

JUSTICE

CARY MANUFACTURING COMPANY v. ACME FLEXIBLE CLASP COMPANY
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SECOND CIRCUIT.
No. 122. Submitted December 17,1902.-Decided January 5, 1903.

Judgments and decrees of the Circuit Court of Appeals in all cases arising
under the patent laws and under the criminal laws are made final by section six of the judiciary act of Iarch 3, 1891, and cannot be brought
from that court to this by appeal or writ of error. And even if a constitutional question so arises in the Circuit Court that a party may bring
his case directly to tins court under section five .of that act, yet if lie
does not do so, but carries his case to the Circuit Court of Appeals, he
must abide by the judgment of that court.

THEc case is stated in the opinion of the court.
Mr. A. G N

Vermily for plaintiffin error.

No appearance for defendant in error.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE FULLER delivered

the opinion of the court.

The Acme "Flexible Clasp Company brought suit in the
Circuit Court of the United States for the Southern District of

