AYRES v POLSDORFER.
Statement of the Case.

District Court-refusing to remove the case to the United States
Circuit Court upon the petition of plaintiffs in error. But upon
the denial of.the application to remove they filed the record in
the Circuit Court of the United States, and that court reinmanded
the cause, and a copy of its order was filed in the District Court
before the commencement of the trial. In substantially similar
circumstances we held in MZissou Paosftc Railway v Fitzgerald, 160 U. S. 556, that if error there had been in the ruling
of the state court it became wholly immaterial.
W 'rt of error disms's-ed.

AYRES v. POLSDORFER.
ERROR TO- THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE-SIXTH CIRCUIT.
No. 89. Argued November 13,1902.-Decided January 5,1903.
When the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court of the United States is invoked
solely on the ground of diversity of citizenship, two classes of cases can
arise, one in which the questions expressed in section 5 of the Judiciary
Act of 1891 appear in the course of the proceedings and one in which
other Federal questions appear. Cases of the first class may be brought

to this court directly or may be taken to the Circuit Court of Appeals;
but if they are taken to the latter court they cannot then be brought
here. Cases of the second class must be taken to the Circuit Court of
Appeals and its judgment- will be final. Loeb v. Columbia Township
Trustees, 179 U. S. 47, followed, and Northern Pacoc Railway Co. v.
Amato, f44 U. S. 471, distinguished.
EJEOmENT and trespass brought in the Circuit Court of the
United States, Western Division of the Westeriv District of
Tennessee, for the recovery of lands and damages. Part of
the land is an island in the Mississippi River. The declaration
was in the usual form, and the ground of jurisdiction -in the
Circuit Court was diversity of citizenship, expressed as follows"
"The plaintiffs, who are citizens of the State of Indiana, residing in Evansville, therein, complain 6f the defendants, Joe

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Statement of the Case.

C. Marley, Thomas Price, E. J Roy, T. A. Roy, L. L. Coleman and E. Al. Ayres, who are citizens of the State of Tennessee, residing in the Western Division of the Western District thereof, in an action of trespass and ejectment."
The declaration alleged ownership in fee of the plaintiffs
(defendants in error here) and their possession, and alleged the
entry of the defendants as follows
"And the plaintiffs being so entitled to the said property,
and so in possession thereof, the said defendants, to wit, on
the said October 1st, 1898, at the said county of Lauderdale,
unlawfully and without right entered into and upon the said
premises, and falsely and unjustly set up title thereto, as in
them respectively, and cut timber therefrom and removed the
same, and exercised acts of ownership thereof under such false
and unjust claim of title, and denied and refused to recognize
the claim of these plaintiffs to the title, or their possession
thereunder, and wholly refused to admit and repudiated the
same, as they still do."
Judgment for the recovery of the land was prayed and
$3000 damages.
Price. pleaded not guilty The plaintiff in error also pleaded
not guilty, and "that plaintiff's action accrued more than
seven years before suit, brought." Against the other defendants no judgment was sought.
Upon the issues thus joined the jury found for the plaintiffs
(defendants in error) as follows
"That they find that the plaintiffs are the owners in fee and
entitled to and in possession of the following lands, situated in
Lauderdale County, Tennessee, to-wit
They also further found-"That the plaintiffs are the owners in fee, and. entitled to
all the accretions and alluvion formed by the Mississippi River
in front of the said three (3) tracts of land above described, the
same being and constituting all the land added by accretion
and alluvion to the river front, as such front of the said three
,tracts of land existed on the Mississippi River when the said
tracts of land respectively were granted, and extending from
and including all the accretions and alluvion in front thereof,

AYRES r POLSI)ORFER.
Counsel for Plaintiff in Error.

from the line on the river of the tract first mentioned above,
furthest up stream.
"As to the other land herein sued for not embraced in the
above descriptions, the jury finds the plaintiffs are not entitled
to the same.'
Judgment was entered in accordance with the verdict. To
this judgment plaintiff in error sued out a writ of error from
the Circuit Court of Appeals of the Sixth Circuit, which was
dismissed upon the motion of defendants in error, on the ground
that there had been no summons and severance of the defendant Thomas Price. 105 Fed. Rep. 737. A petition for rehearing was filed but denied. This writ of error was then sued.
out.
The assignments of error are as follows
"1. The court erred in dismissing the writ of error of petitioner upon the ground that the judgment was against two
jointly, and that they did not join in the appeal.
"2. The court erred in dismissing the petition for rehearing
made -by this petitioner
"In support of this assignment be submits herewith counsel's
brief No. 2.
"3. The court erred in refusing to entertain jurisdiction of
this cause and not reversing it upon the merits. And in
support of this he refers to the assignment of error Record
pp. 266, 273 and subints herewith .his counsel's brief thereon
No. 3.
"The ground of this application is that the record in this
cause shows that petitioner claimed under muniments of title
from the State of Arkansas and Polsdorfer and wife and also
Price claimed under inuniments of title from the State of Tennessee. In other words, petitioner clains that he has a right
to the writ of error under the Constitution of the United States,
article 3, section 2."
,M& Thorn as B. Turley and 31' J B. Heaekell for plaintiff in
error. .Mr . TV llezkell was with them on the brief.

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

-Y. lV8assell Rando~ph for defendants in error. -r rilliam
. Rwadolph and 2fr George RawndopI& were with hin on the
brief.
after making the foregoing statement,
delivered the, opinion of the court.
MR. JUSTIOE MoKENNA,

A motion is made to dismiss on the ground, that the judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals was final, and therefore it
is not reviewable by writ of error from this court.
Interpreting the Judiciary Act of 1891, we said, in itoLish v
Rof, 141 U S. 661, 666, that its purpose was to provide "for
the distribution of the entire appellate jurisdiction of our national judicial system, between the Supreme Court pf the Unted States and the Circuit Court of Appeals, therein established,
by designating the classes of cases in respect to which each of
those two courts shall respectively have final jurisdiction."
,But special questions arose. It was provided in section 6 that
the judgments and decrees of the Circuit Court of Appeals should
be final in all cases in which jurtsdietio was dependent entirely
upon diversity of citizenship. What jurisdiction was meant and
what would be the effect if Federal questions should appear in
the proceedings after the commencement of the case 2 The
questions were answered in Colorado Minng Co. v Turc, 150
U S. 138.
In that case the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court was invoked
on the ground of diversity of citizenship, but the defendant
claimed to have set up in defence a Federal question arising
under section 2322 of the Revised Statutes of the United States,
and on that ground insisted that the judgment of the Circuit
Court of Appeals in the case was not final. Rejecting the contention and dismissing the writ of error, tls court held.that be-.
fore the defenpe under section 2322 of the Revised Statutes had
been set up jurisdiction had "already attached and could not
was
be affected by subsequent developments." Jurisdiction, it.
said, "depended entirely upon diverse citizenship when the suit
was commenced, and to that point of time the inquiry must
necessarily be referred." Thesame idea was expressed insub-

AYRES v. POLSDORFER.
Opinion of the Court.

sequent cases though in somewhat different language Buta distinction was not precisely made between the questions embraced
rn.section 5 and other Federal questlons

That distinction was

presented in Loeb v. Columbw Towns]kp' Trustee,, 179 U. S.
472.

The case was an action upon bonds-issued'by the township for
the purpose of raising money to meet the cost of widemng and
extending a. certain avenue within its limits. There was a demurrer to the petition, and it appeared-from the opinion of the
court that one of the points raised on the demurrer was that the
act of the general assembly, under and by virtue of which the
bonds were issued,' contravened the Constitution of the United
.States, and therefore the bonds werevoid. The case came.directly from the Circuit Court to this court. A motion was
m.ade to dismiss for want of jurisdiction. The motion was denied, notwithstanding the petition in the Circuit Court showed
that the parties were citizens of different States and stated no
other grounds of jurisdiction. If nothing more appeared, it was
said; bearing upon jurisdiction, "it would be held that this court
was without authority to review the judgment of the Circuit
.Court." But.as we have seen, the claim had been made in the
Circuit Court by the defendant that the statute of Ohio, by the
authority of which the bonds were issued, was in contravention
of the'-Constitution of the United States. It was contended
that such claim made- by-the defendant was not sufficient to
give this court jurmsdictfoni upon .a writ of. error, to review the
final judgment of the CirQuit Court sustaining such claim. It
was answered, "such an interpretation of the fifth section is
not justified by its words. Our. right-of review by the express
words of the statute extendt to-' any.case'.of the knd specified
in the fifth- section.' And this view was affirmed in ffuguley
Aanufacturrng Company v. "Gaeton,-.otton.Mills, 184- U. S.290.
In Roknson v CaMfoell, 165 U S. 359, it has been decided
that "it Was not the purpose of the Judiciary Act of 1891 to
give a party who was defeated in a Circuit Court of the United
States the right to have the case finally determined upon its
merits both in this court and m the Circuit-Cgurt of Appeals."

OCTOBER TERM. 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

This was affirmed in Zoeb v Columbma Townshp T'ustees. It
'was there observed that the plaintiff in that action could have
carried the case to the Circuit Court of Appeals, but had he
done so, " li e could not thereafter have invoked the jurisdiction
of this court upon another writ of error to review the judgment
of the Circuit Court."
Therefore when the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court is invoked solely on the ground of diver'sity of citizenship two classes
of cases can arise, one in which the questions expressed in section 5 appear in the course of the proceedings and one in which
other Federal questions appear. Cases of the first class may be
brought to this court directly or may be taken to the Circuit
Court of Appeals. But if taken to the latter court they cannot
then be brought here. Cases of the second class must be taken
to the Circuit Court of Appeals and its judgment will be final.
The case at bar falls under one or under the other of those
classes.
The declaration was ejectment and trespass in the form used
in the local practice. The only ground of jurisdiction was that
the plaintiffs were citizens of the State of Indiana, and the defendants were citizens of the State of Tennessee. The answers
were simply traverses in statutory form of the wrongs alleged
in the declaration. The plaintiffs, in the case recovered, and
the plaintiff in error here carried the case to the Circuit Court
of Appeals. The Federal. question arose in the course of the
proceedings in the Circuit Court, and is claimed to have been
and to be based on grants of lands from different States, the
conflict arising between grants from the State of Tennessee to
defendailts in error and to Price, under which they respectively
claimed title, and a tax deed introduced in evidence by plaintiff
in error, which was made by the officials of Mississippi County,
Arkansas, and under which deed.he claimed title. Granting,
for argument's sake, there was an opposition of grants within
the meaning of the provision of the Constitution defining the
judicial power of the United States, it would seem to bring the
case within the doctrine of Zoeb v Columbia Township Tmustees, both as to the question raised and the manner of its review,
and the plaintiff in error, having sued out a writ of error from

AYRES v. POLSDORFER.
Opinion of the Court.

the Circuit Court of Appeals, cannot now come to this court
upon another. The plaintiff in error, however, denies that this
consequence results from -Loeb v Columb a Townshtp Trustees,
and insists that the principle of the case justifies the present
writ of error. The argument is that, when a Federal question
not embraced in section 5 is disclosed by defendant's plea, or
by subsequent- proceedings, and there is judgment against the
defendant, if he be denied the right to carry the caso from the
Circuit Court of Appeals to this court, the. "result wduld.
be contrary to the principle laid down in Loeb v Columb a
Trustees." And it is insisted "there are cases of
TowuWkh
Federal jurisdiction which are not embraced under section 5 of
the act of 1891, in which the judgment or decree of the Circuit
Court of Appeals is not final under section 6 of said act," and
Northern Paczfto Railway Co. v. Amato, 144 U. S. 465, 4'71,
and U on Pacifr Railway Co. v Harris, 158 U. S. 326, are
cited as examples. It is said that "in these [those] cases the
declaration or complaints disclosed that the- original jurisdiction
of the Circuit Court was invoked on account of diverse citizenship, but they further disclosed that the defendants were corporations organized under the laws of the United States." It
is then asked
"Suppose a ground of Federal jurisdiction not embraced in
section 5 of the act of 1891, and in. which the judgment or
decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals is not conclusive, is
first disclosed by defendant's plea, or by subsequent proceedings, in a case.in which the original jurisdiction of the Circuit
Court was invoked solely on theground of diverse citizenship,
or on one of the other grounds in which the decision of the
Circuit Court of Appeals is final. If, 'in such case, there was a
judgment against the defendant, and he, carried the case by
writ of error or appeal to the Circuit Court of Appeals, and
judgment was there rendered against him, and he then sought
to bring the case to this court by writ of error or appeal, how
would it stand in this court 2"
4.nswering the question, counsel say if the doctrine of Mineng Co. v Turck be eilforced, and the writ of error, dismissed,
th6 result would bethat "wh e rever a ease involved two grounds

OCTOBER TERMf, 1902.Opinion of the Court.

of Federal jurisdiction, neither of which is embraced m section 5 of the act of 1891, and as to one of which the judgment or decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals is final, and as
to the other is not final, then the plaintiff suing in the Circuit
Court can, by invoking its jurisdiction solely on the ground as
to which the judgment or decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals will be final, deprive the defendant of the right given
him to carry the case from the Circuit Court of Appeals to this
court by writ of error or appeal. Such a result would be contrary to the principle laid down in loeb v. Columbia Townsldp
Trustees, 8upra, which case, it will be seen, discountenances the
idea that one party can, by the method or way in which he
brings his suit, deprive the other of a rght of review by this
court."
We have quoted at length from counsel to exhibit their contention in full.
The contention has been answered by that which we have
already said. Besides, counsel are wrong in, their premses.
orthern Pa fic Railway Co. v Amato and Unson PacXc
Railway. Co. v Harrwe were not cases in which the jurisdiction
was invoked on the grounds of diversity of citizenship. The
first was brought in a state court and removed to the Circuit
Court of the United States, on the ground that being a case
against a corporation created by Congress, the suit arose under
a law of the United States. The other case was brought in the
Qircuit Court of the United States and the Federal character
of the corporation, following previous authority, was held to
have constituted a ground of jurisdiction independent of the
citizenship of the parties. We questioned the consistency of
the reasoning upon which the conclusion was based, but recognized and yielded to authority, and we assigned the case to that
class of cases which was not dependent solely upon diversity of
citizenship.
Loeb v Columbta Townshiy T8utes; does not hold broadly
that the plaintiff, "by the method or way in. which he brings-his suit," can "deprive the other of a right to. review by this
court." It only denies the right-of re ;iew of the merfts in this
court and in the -Circuit Court of Appeals, and the limitation is

AYRES v POLSDORFER.
Opinion of the Court.

reasonable considering the purpose of the statute. Its purpose
was undoubtedly to hasten the results of litigation and to relieve
this court of its burden of cases. Tins could only be accomplished through the medium of another appellate tribunal.
And of what cases it should have 3urlsdiction and its relation to
this court, were naturally expressed in general language. Interpretation, as_.we have said, was soon demanded and responded
to, and the appellate power of -this court and that of the Circuit
Court of-p-peals definitely assigned. If the assignment leaves
some cases unreviewable by tins court, it,.by that very effect,
fulfills the purpose of the adt of 1891. Against the assignment
reasons of 6burse may be urged, and counsel has seen and forcefully presented them,
Another arguiienr is used by plaintiff in error to bring this
case within NVothern Pacip Railway Co. v Amto, Unon
Paci.jc Railway Co. v Harms, and Loeb v Columbina Townshs.p.
It is, that the .Federal question raised, to wit, the claim of
grants under different States; does not involve the construction
or application- of the Constitution of the United States, and
therefore is not within that clause of section 5 which provides
for appeal or writ of error direct to this court. To so hold, it
is claamed, would make all the other divisions of section 5 but
nominal, and make all the cases arising under them involve the
construction of the Constitution of the United States. That,
it is claimed, was not the purpose of the section, "upon the
familiar principle that the enumeration of six particular classes
is- a limitation upon the scope and effect of each particular
class."
That clause, therefore, it is finaly said, does not embrace the
cases imoluded in the other clauses. And extending the argument; it is -further said'
"It does not enibrace cases. of diverse citizenship, nor cask
between citizens of the United States and aliens, nor patent
cases- nor revenue cases, in which the United States is a party,
nor criminal cases involving a crime.iless than capital or infamous, nor admiralty cases,for all these cases are.provided for
m section 6 of said act
"The Constitution of the United States gives the courts of
voL. cLxxxvI-38

OCTOBER TER1M, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

the United States jurisdiction in cases between citizens of different States, and between citizens of the same State, claiming
lands under grants from different States.
"If Ithe construction or application of the Constitution of
the United States,' as used in section 5 of the act of 1891, does
not embrace cases between citizens of different States, upon
what ground can it be said to embrace cases between citizens
of the same State claiming under grants of different States?
"Parties claiming under grants from different States are allowed to come into the Federal court in order to obtain an impartial trial. The question as to the validity of the grants we may
say never depended upon any construction of the Constitution
of the United States. Hence it is, we insist, that not being
enumerated specifically in section 5 of the act of 1891, cases of
parties claiming under grants of different Statez are nor embraced therein, nor are they embraced in the classes of cases
enumerated in section 6 of the act of 1891, in -which the judgment and decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals is final. If
we are right in this the result is that the writ of error should be
maintained, it being sufficient under the case of loeb v. Columbi Toownshzp Trustees that the question appears definitely
elsewhere in the record."
The contention seems to be opposed to the assignments of
error. The third assignment of error is "that the record in
this cause shows that petitioner claimed under inuniments of
title from the State of Arkansas and Polsdorfer and wife and
also Price claimed under muniments of title from the State of
Tennessee. In other words, petitioner claims that he has a
right to the writ of error under the Constitution of the United
States, article 3, section 2."
But we .may pass that, as we are not called upon to concede
or deny that a case in which conflicting grants from different
States to citizens of different States appear is one arising under
the Constitution of the United States. If it be such a case it
should be brought here directly from the Circuit Court, and
Loeb v Columbw Townskp Trustees applies. If it be not such
a. case, the other cases which we. have cited apply There is

AYRES r POLSDORFIER.
Opimon of the Court.

nothing to the contrary in Northern Paqjg Railway Co. v
Amato or Unzon Pac ic Railway CJo. v Harris. In such cases
it always appears at the outset that one of the parties is a Federal corporation.
The final contention of plaintiff in error is that the principle
of 3linsng Co. v. Turck, and kindred cases, is based "to a great
extent on the doctrine that the act of 1891 was not intended to
give a party, defeated in the Circuit Court, the right to have
his case determined upon its merits both in this court and in the
Circuit Court of Appeals." And that "plaintiff in error has
had no trial on the merits m the Circuit Court of Appeals or in
this court." This is claimed because the Circuit Court of Appeals dismissed the case on the ground that Price; who was a
defendant. in the Circuit Qourt, was not made a party to the
writ of error, nor as to him had there been summons and
severance.
That the ruling was error we are not called upon to say.
Granting it to have been error, we are powerless to review it.
The expression as to the determination of a case "upon its
merits" was used in distinction to the review of a question of
jurisdiction,,strictly so-called-the right of the Circuit Court
to entertain the case at all. As to such questions, other rules
apply than those we ,have expressed in this opinion. It was
not intended to decide that.the Circuit Court of Appeals must
hear the case on the merits in the broad sense of that expression, disregarding every error coinmitted in seeking a review
by that court. Nor was it intended to deprive that court. of
the power to determine whether the conditions of its right to
review the case hadbeen properly observed.
It follows that the writ of error must- be dismissed.
Apparently apprehending this result, plaintiff in error applied
at the hearing on motion and petition filed October 9, 1902,
for the writ of certiorari as under section 6 of the act of
March 3, 1891.
Judgment was entered below December 7, 1900, and petition
for rehearing denied February 23, 1901. This writ of error
was brought April 15, 1901, and the record filed here and the
cause docketed April 29, 1901.

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Statement of the Case.

In these circumstances we must decline to entertain the
application.
3Iotion for certwraridenwed. Writ of ernor di&mmsed.

PAGE v. EDMUNDS.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR TE THIRD
CIRCUIT.
14o. 100. Argued Novw.dber 13, 1902.-Decided January 6, 103.
1. A seat or membership in the Philadelphia Stock Exchange belonging to
a person adjudicated a bankrupt is property which the bankrupt could
have transferred within the meaning of subdivision 5 of section 70 of the
bankruptcy act of 1898, and it therefore passes to the trustee in bankruptcy of the owner.
2. There is nothing in the bankruptcy act or the statutes of Pennsylvania,
as the latter have been construed by the highest courts of that State,
exempting such seat from sale by the trustee in bankruptcy.

THE appellant is a resident of Philadelphia, Pa., and has
been a member of the Philadelphia Stock Exchange in good
standing since the year 1880. On the 16th of November, 1899,
he was adjudged a voluntary bankrupt in the District Court
for the Eastern District of jPennsylvama, and the cause was
referred to Alfred Driver, Esq., referee in bankruptcy In the
schedules attached to his petition the appellant did not include
as an asset of his estate his membership in the stock exchange.
His trustee in bankruptcy caused the membership to be appraised, and petitioned- the referee for an order to sell the
same. The petition was heard before the referee, who, after
hearing, filed his report containing a summary as follows
"The said Page was adjudicated a bankrupt upon his own
petition on November 16, 1899. Upon his exanination he
stated that he is a member of the Philadelphia Stock Exchange, that he bought his seat in 1880, paying for it at that
time about $5500, that when a member wishes to dispose of

