' 606

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opimod of the Court.

Another answer is urged ta the contention. By the act of
April 9, 1849, P L 533, sec. I, it is. enacted "In lieu of the
property now exempt by law from levy and sale on execution,
issued upon any judgment obtained upon contract and distress
for rent, property to the value of three hundred dollars, exclusive of all wearing apparel of the defendant and his family, and
all bibles and school books in use ii the family, (which shall remain exemptedl as heretofore,) and no more, owned by or in possession of any debtor, shall be exempt from levy and sale on
execution or by distress for rent."
Judgment aff rmed.

OTIS v. PARKER.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIANo. 4. Argued December 11, 12, 1902.-Deiided January 5, 1903.

The provision in article IV, section 26 of the constitutioli of Califorma
providing that "all contracts for the sales of shares of the capital stock
of any corporation or association, on margin, or to be delivered at a future day, shall be void, and any money paid on such contracts may be
recovered by the .party~paying it by suit in any court of competent 3urisdiction," is not contrary to the first section of the Fourte6nth Amend,ment of the Constitution of the United States, so far as it relates to sales
on margns.

THE case is stated in the opinion of the court.

.M

Edmund

._H Joseph Hutchnson for defendant int error.

ff' John

Mr John G Johnson for plaintiffs in error.
Tauszky was with him on the brief.

H.3jler was with him on the brief.
MR.

JUsTIcE

HOLMEs delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an action in three counts, for money had and"received,

OTIS v. PARKER.
Opinion of the Court.

for money paid and promised to be repaid, and for margins paid
to the defendants as stock brokers on contracts to buy and sell
mining stocks, respectively The answers to the first two counts
are general denials and other matters now immaterial. The
answer to the third count, beside a general denial, sets up that
the count is based upon a provision in article IV, section 26, of
the constitution of California, and that that provision is contrary
to the first section of the Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution of the United States. It appears by the record that
the only cause of action was that stated specifically in the third count, and that the defendants interposed the constitutional
objection at the trial and that it was overruled. The plaintiff
had a general verdict on all three counts. The case was taken
from the Superior to the Supreme Court of California on appeal, and the judgment of the Superior Court was affirmed, with
an inmaterial modification. It now is brought here by a writ
of error to the Supreme Court of the State.
We must take it as established that the plaintiff did enter
into transactions prohibited by the constitution of California,
and that he had a right to his judgment under that constitution
if the clause relied upon is not contrary to the Constitution of
the United States. There is no question that the parties were
subject to the provisions of the latter Constitution, and no doubt
that the question whether it invalidated the state constitution
necessarily was passed upon, and was answered in the negative
by the state court. 130 California, 322.
The provision of the state constitution is as follows "All
contracts for the sales of shares of the capital stock of any corporation or association, on margin, or to be delivered at a future day, shall be void, and any money paid on such contracts
may be recovered by the party paying it by suit in any court
of competent jurisdiction." There was some suggestion that
these words might be narrowed by construction to contracts
not contemplating a bona fidAe acquisition of the stock, but intended to cover only a wager or contemplated settlement of
differences. Of course, if they were construed in that sense
there would be no doubt of their validity Booth v fllanois,
184 U. S. 425. But while the Supreme Court of Califrnia says

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

-in this case that it " will always see that legitimate business
transactions are not brought under the ban," in the same sentence it leaves open the hypothesis that the provision "fails to
distinguish between bonafidecontracts andgambling contracts,"
and sustains it as a proper police regulation, even if it does fail
as supposed. Therefore it may be held hereafter that ordinary
contracts for the sale of stocks on margin are not legitimate
transactions, and it would not be safe for us to take the words
in any other than their literal meaning, or to'assume in advance
of a decision that they will be taken in a narrow sense. In this
case the jury were instructed broadly to find for the plaintiff
if he had paid any money to the defendants as a margin for
the purchase of stock of a corporation, and this instruction was
sustained.
The objection urged against the provision in its literal sense
is that this prohibition of all sales on margin bears.no reasonable relation to the evil sought to be cured, and therefore falls
within the first section of the Fourteenth Amendment. It is
said that it unduly limits the liberty of adult persons in making
contracts which concern only themselves, and cuts down the
y-alue of a class of property that often must be disposed of under contracts of the prohibited kind if it is to be disposed of to
advantage, thus depr~ing persons of liberty and property without due process of law, and that it unjustifiably discriminates
against property of that class, while other familiar objects of
speculation, such as cotton or grain, are not touched, thus depriving persons of the equal protection of the laws.
It is true, no doubt, that neither a state legislature nor a state
constitution can interfere arbitrarily with private business or
transactions, and that the mere fact that an enactment purports
to be for the protection of public safety, health or morals, is
not conclusive upon the courts. .fugler v Kansas, 123 U. S.
623, 661, Lawton v Steele, 152 U S. 133, 137. But general
propositions do not carry us far. While the courts must exercise a judgment of their own, it by no means is true that every
law is void which may seem to the judges who pass upon it
excessive, unsuited to its ostensible end, or based upon conceptions of morality with which they disagree. Considerable lati-

OTIS v. PARKER.
Opinion of the Court.

tude must be allowed for differences of view as well as for
possible peculiar conditions which this court can know but imperfectly, if at all. Otherwise a constitution, instead of embodying only relatively fundamental rules of right, as generally
understood'by all English-speaking communities, would become
the partisan of a particular set of ethical or economical opinions,
which by no means are held semper ubzque et a5 omnibus.
Even if the provision before us should seem to us not to have
been justified by the circumstances locally existing in California
at the -time when it was passed, it is shown by its adoption to
have expressed a deep-seated conviction on the part of the people concerned as to what that policy require.d. Such a deepseated conviction is entitled to great respect. If the State
thinks that an admitted evil caninot be prevented except by prohibiting a calling or transaction not in itself necessarily objectionable, the courts cannot interfere, unless, in looking at the
substance of thematter,they can see that it" is a clear, unrnistakable infringement of rights secured by the fundamental law"
Booth v. Ilinow, 184 U. S.425, 429. N o court would declare
a usury law unconstitutional, even if every member of it believed that Jeremy Bentham had said the last word on that
subject, and had shown for all time that such laws did more
harm than good. The Sunday laws, no doubt, would be sustained by a bench of judges, even if every one of them thought
it -superstitious to make any day holy Or, to take cases where
opinion has moved in the opposite direction, wagers may be
declared illegal without the aid of statute, or lotteries forbidden
by express, enactment, although at an earlier day they were
thought pardonable at least. The case would not be decided
differently if lotteries had been lawful when the Fourteenth
Amendment became law, as -indeed they were in some civilized
States. See Balloe v State, 73 Maryland, 1.
We cannot say that there might not be conditions.of public
delirium in which at least a temporary prohibition of sales on
margins would be a salutary thing. Still less can we say that
there might, not be conditions in which it reasonably might be
thought a salutary thing, even if we disagreed with the opinion.
Of course, if a man can buy on margin he can launch into a
vol. CLXXXVII-39

OCTOBER TERMI,

1902.

Opinion of the Court.

much more extended venture than where he must pay the whole
price at once. If he pays the whole price he gets the purchased
article, whatever its worth may turn out to be. But if he buys
stocks on margin he may put all his property into the venture,
and being unable to keep his margins good if the stock market
goes down, a slight fall leaves him penniless, with nothing to
represent his outlay, except that he has had the chances of a
bet. There is no doubt that purchases on margin may be and
fre-quently are used as a means of gambling for a great gain or
a loss of all one has. It is said that in California, when the
constitution was adopted, the whole people were buying mining
stocks in this way with the result of infinite disaster. Cashman
v Root, 89 California, 373, 382, 383. If at that time the provision of the constitution, instead of being put there, had been
embodied in a temporary act, probably no one would have questioned it, and it would be hard to take a distinction solely on
the ground of its more permanent form. Inserting the provision
in the constitution showed, as we have said, the conviction of
the people at large that prohibition was a proper means of stopping the evil. And as was said with regard to a prohibition of
option contracts in Booth v llinot, 184 -ITS. 425, 431, we are
unwilling to declare.the judgment to have been wholly without
foundation.
With regard to the objection that this provision strikes at
only some, not all, of the objects of possible speculation, it is
enough to-say that probably in California the evil sought to be
stopped was confined in the main to stocks in corporations.
California is a mining State, and mines offer the most striking
temptations to people in a hurry to get rich. Alines generally
are represented by stocks. Stock is convenient for purposes of
speculation, because of the ease with which it is transferred
from band to hand, as well as for other reasons. If stopping
the purchase and sale of stocks on margin would stop the gambling which it was desired to prevent, it was proper for the people of California to go no farther in what they forbade. The
circumstances disclose a reasonable ground for the classification,
and thus distinguish the case from Connolly v Unzwn Sewer
Pije Co., 184 _U S. 540. We cannot say that treating stocks

DIAMOND GLUE CO. v. UNITED STATES GLUE CO. 611
Opinion of the Court.
of corporations as a class subject to special restrictions was unjust discrimination or the demal of the-equal protection of the
laws..
Judgment afflrmed.
MR. JuSTICE BREw- and MR. TusTcE PEOKA3x dissented.

DIAMOND GLUE COMPANY v. UMITED STATES GLUE

COMPANY
ERROR TO, THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF WISCONSIN.
No. 119. Argued December 16, 17,1902.-Decided January5, 1903.
A statute of Wisconsin enacted prior to June-25, 189, but which was to go
into operation on September 1, 1898, requiring foreign corporations to
file a copy of thcir charter with the Secretary of State and to pay a small
fee as a condition for doing business there does not impair the obligation
of a contract made on June 25, 1808, by a foreign corporation to do business in Wisconsin after September 1, 1898.
The statute as applied to this case does not interfere unlawfully with interstate commerce, notwithstanding the fact that the business was the production of glue which naturally would be sold outside the State.
The statute originally included foreign partnerships as well as corporations.
Held that the provision as to partnerships was separable and if invalid
for any reason did not affect the remainder of the act.

THE facts are stated in the opinion of the court.

MrP EdgarA. Baancroft for pla.intiff in error. I& Samuel
Adams, .Xr Franklin D -Locke and .Ar George H. Noyes were
with him on the brief.
Charle Quarles for defendant in error. 2Ak J. V.
Quarles and Mr George LInes were with him on the brief.
Mr

MR. JusT CE HOLMEs delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an action upon a written contract alleging a breach

