OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Syllabus.

BIRD v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF ALASKA.
No. 306. Argued October 14, 1902.-Decided November 17,1902.
-Bird was twice tried and found guilty of the crime of murder and sentenced to death by the District Court of the United States for the District of Alaska; while an appeal from the fii'st trial was pending in this
court, whilch resulted in reversal, 180 U. S. 356, Congress passed the act
of March 31, 1899, to "define and punish crimes in the District of Alaska
and to provide a code of criminal procedure for said district," which went
into effect July 1, 1899; on June 6, 1900, Congress passed another act for
Alaska "making further provision for a civil government in Alaska and
for other purposes." On the second trial plaintiff in error contended
that these. acts deprived the trial court of jurisdiction and that the act
of March 17, 1884, establishing the District Court for Alaska was entirely
repealed and superseded by the act of June 6, 1900, and the District
Court for Alaska to which the indictment was returned was therebyabolished; motions to strike from the docket and in arrest of judgment were
denied:
(1) Held, that this was not error as the acts of March 3, 1899, and June 6,
1900, together constituted a part of the scheme for the government
of Alaska, and it is manifest from the provision in section 219 of
the act of March 3, 1899, that "iothing therein contained shall
apply to or affect in any way any proceeding or indictment now
found or pending, or that may be found for any offence committed
before the passage of this act." That Congress did not intend by
the act of June 6, 1900, to affect the prosecution of prior offences.
The tribunal provided for by the act of June 6, 1900, whether newly created
or an existing one continued, has jurisdiction of all criminal cases
embraced by the provision of the act of March 3, 1899.
There is a presumption against a construction which would renderastatute ineffective or inefficient, or which would cause grave public injury or even inconvenience.
(2) Where a female witness for the prosecution is designated on the trial
indictment and the list 9f witnesses given to the defendant on the
trial by her maiden name, which was the name by which she was
known at the time, although she had been married and divorced,
and had subsequently borne the name of another man with whom
she lived, the trial court properly overruled the objections of the
plaintiff in error to the testimony on the ground that the name so.
designated 'was not her name.

BIRD v. UNITED STATES.
Counsel for Parties.
The purpose of section 19)33 of the Revised Statutes of the United States
requiring that in capital cases the list of witnesses be given to the
defendant at least two days before the trial, is to point out the
persons who may testify against him, and' this is best accomplished
by the name the witness bears at the time and not some name that
the witness may have had at a prior time.
(B) It was not error to charge, a jury, "But in determining this matter
under the evidence before you, you must consider the situation of
the parties at the time and all the surrounding circumstances, together with the testimony of the witness for the prosecution as
well as the evidence of the defendant," on the ground that it in
effect declared that even if the testimony of the witnesses for the
Government were untrue, it was to be considered in delivering the
verdict and because all the defendant's evidence (except his own)
was withdrawn from the jury on the issue of self-defence, as it
appears that the jury were also instructed that it was their duty
"to consider the whole evidence and render a verdict in accordance with the facts proved upon the trial."
(4) There was no error in the following instruction: "Evidence has been
offered of the escape of the defendant, or attempted escape, after
arrest on. the charge on which the defendant is now being tried.
This evidence is admitted on the theory that the defendant is in
fear of the consequences of his crime and is attempting to escape
therefrom; in other words, that guilt may be inferred from the
fact of escape from custody. The court instructs you that the inference that may be drawn from an escape is strong or slight according to the facts surrounding the party at the time. If a party
is caught in the act of crime and speedily makes an attempt for
liberty under desperate circumstances, the inference of guilt would
be strong, but if the attempt was made after many months of confinement and escape comparatively without danger, then the inference of guilt to be drawn from an escape is slight; but whether
the inference of guilt is strong or slight depends upon the conditions and circumstances surrounding the accused person at the
time."
(5) The trial court rightly refused, at the defendant's request, to give
the jury any instructions defining principal and accessory, or to
submit to the Jury to determine whether certain other persons
were accomplices, as there were no facts in the case to justify it
and the defendant himself testified that he had acted in selfdefence.

THE case is stated in the opinion of the court.
.X" I. T. Afichener for plaintiff in error. X T JT Dudkey and Messrs. Malony & Cobb were with him on the brief.

-OCTOBER TERAI, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

.A1r Ase8tant Attorney General Beck and lr Charles I.
Robb for defendants in erxor.
MR. SusTioE MoKNI A

delivered the opinion of the court.

Homer Bird was found guilty of the crime of murder and was
sentenced to aeath. On appeal to this court the judgment and
sentence were reversed and the case remanded for a new trial.
180 U. S. 356.
A new trial was had resulting again, in.the conviction of Bird
for murder, and a sentence of death by hanging was pronounced
against :him. To this judgment and sentence this writ of error
is directed.
After-the first trial and while the case was pending in this
c'ourt, that is, on March 3, 1899, Congress passed a criminal codo
and code of civil procedure for Alaska, entitled "An act to define and punish. grimes in the Dist ict of Alaska and to provide
a code of criminal procedure for said district." It went into
effect July 1, 1899.
On Juie 6, 1900, Congress passed another act for Alaska,
entitled "An act mlking further provision for a civil government for Alaska, and for other purposes." 31 Stat. 321.
Plaintiff.in error, contending that these acts deprived the
court of jurisdiction, whern the case was called for tril, moved
the court to strike the cause from the docket and order him
discharged. (1) because the court had no jurisdiction of the
crime charged, (2) because the court had no jurisdiction of the
case. The motion was denied. It was renewed again in arrest
of judgment, and the grounds of it specifically alleged as follows
".I. Because there has never been any .plea entered in this
court by the defendant, the only plea ever made by him being
in the District Court for Alaska, established by the act of Con,
gress of May 17, 1884, which was abolished by. the act of Congress of June 6, 1900.
"II. Because the court has no jurisdiction of this cause, the
"indictment herein having been returned into the District Court
for Alaska, established'by the act of Congress of May 17,1884,

BIRD v. UNITED STATES.
Opimon of the Court.

and not into this court, and there is-no law conferring upon
this court jurisdiction over indictments returned into said court.
"III. Because. this court has no jurisdiction of the offense
charged in the indictment herein, in this The said indictment
charges an offense under section -5339 of the Revised Statutes
of the United States, while this court has no jurisdiction -of
crimes except-as defined in the criminal code for Alaska."
The motion was denied and. an exception was taken. This
ruling constitutes the first assignment of error.
1. The act of 1884.provided a civil government for Alaska,
and by section 3 it was enacted- as follows
"That there shall be, and hereby is; established a District
Court for said district, with the civil and crimihal jurisdiction
of District Courts of the United States, and the civil and criminal jurisdiction of District Courts of the United States exercising the jurisdiction of Circuit Courts, and such other jursdiction, not inconsistent with this act, as may be established by
law, and a district judge shall be appointed for said district,
who shall during his term of office reside therein and hold at
least two terms of said court therein in each -year,one at Sitka,
beginning on the first Monday in May, and the other at Wrangel, beginning on the first Monday in November."
By section 7 it was provided
"That the general laws of the State of Oregon noW.in force
are hereby declared to be the law in said district, so far -as the
same may be applicable and not in conflict with the provisions
of this act or the laws of the United States."
It was under this laiv that plaintiff in error was indicted, and
tried the first time.
The act of March'3, 1899, defined the crime of homicide, and
divided it into-murder m the first and second degrees, and manslaughter. The act containedoa clause,"it is conceded, saving the
jurisdiction of the court over-pror cases andcrimes. And it is
also conceded that the act is still in force, but it is urged that
it has no bearing on the questions presented. It is contended
that the act of 1884.was entirely repealed and superseded by the
act of June 6, 1900,. "both by express enactment . and by necessary implication," that " the District Court for Alaska created

-

OCTOB3ER TRRM,

1902.

Opinon of the Court.

by the act of May 17,1884, was abolished by the act of June 6,
1900, and an entirely new- court created." and it is hence asserted "that in the alsence of a provision in the latter act,
transferring criminal causes pending in the old court to the new,
the latter had no jurisdiction of indictments returned into the
old court," that "a statute conferring upon a court ' general'
jurisdiction in criminal matters, must be construed to refer to
and to be limited by the code of crininal law-enacted for the
Territory, and does not include jurisdiction of any offence not
embodied in the code."
The act of 1881, we have seen, established the- District Court
for Alaska " with the civil and criminal jurisdiction of District
Courts of the United States, and the civil and criminal jurisdiction of District Courts of the United States exercising the jurisdiction of Circuit Courts." It also provided for the appointment of a district judge, a governor and other officers. It made
,provision, as declared in its title, for a civil government in
Alaska.
The act of June 6, 1900, isentitled "An act making further
provision for a. civil government for Alaska, and for other purposes." It provides for a governor and other officers, and its
provisions for a court are as follows
"There is hereby established'a District Court for the district,
which shall be a court of general jurisdiction in civil, criminal,
equity, and admiralty causes, and three district judges shall be
appointed for the district, who shall, during their terms of
office,.reside in the divisions of the district to which they may
,be respectively 'assigned by the President.
"The court shall consist of three divisions. The judge designated to preside over division numbered one shall, during his
term of office, reside at Juneau, and shall hold at least four
terms of court in the district each year, two at Juneau and. two
at Skagway, and the judge shall, as near January first as practicable, designate the time of holding the terms during the current year.
"The judge designated to preside over divigion numbered two
shall reside at St. Michaels during his term of office, and shall

BIRD v,. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

hold at least one term of court each year at St. Michaels, in the
district, beginning the third Monday in June.
"The judge designated to preside over division numbered
three shall reside at Eagle City during his term of office, and
shall hold at least one term of court each year at Eagle City, in
the district, beginning on the first Monday in July"
Section 5, Title I, declares the jurisdiction of each division of
the court to extend -overthe whole district, and provides'for a
change of venue from one division or place to another. The
act further empowers the judges to appoint their own clerks,
commissioners, etc.
Section 10 provides that the "judges (and other officers) provided for in this act shall be appointed bythe President, by and
with the advice and consent of the Senate," etc., and a salary of
$5000 is provided instead of $3000, as under the old law
Section 25 provides that "the officers properly qualified and
actually discharging official duties in the district at the time of
the approval of this act may continue to act in their respective
official capacities until the expiration of the terms for which they
were respectively appointed unless'sooner removed." And it
is provided in section 368, Title III, as follows"
"No person shall be deprived of any existing legal right "or
remedy by reason of the passage of this act, and all civil actions
or proceedings commenced in he courts of the district before
or within sixty days after the approval of this act may be prosecuted to final judgment under the law now in force in the district, or under this act. All acts and parts of acts in conflict
with the provisions of this act are hereby repealed."'
It is upon these provisions that counsel for plaintiff in error
'est the contentions which we have quoted. The principal contention is that the District Court for Alaska created by the act
of May 17, 1884, was abolished by the act of June 6, 1900, and
an entirely new court created. The contention is supported
with ability, but we do not think ihat it is necessary to decide
it on this record. That Congress did not intend by the act of
June, 1900, to affect the prosecution of prior offences is manifest from the act of March 3, 1899, sura. 30 Stat. 1285.
This act,. though-passed prior to the act 6f June, 1900, con-

OCTOBER 'TERAI, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

stituted, with the latter act, a part of the scheme of government for Alaska. By the act of March 3, 1899, it is provided
"that nothing herein contained shall apply to or in any way
affect any .proceeding or indictment now found or pending or
that may be found for any offence committed before the pssage of this act-" (section 219). The act was in force at the
time of the passage of the act of June, 1900. It constituted
then and constitutes now the code of criminal law enacted for
the Territory, and the crimes there defined constitute the criminal causes of which the District Court, by. the act of June, 1900,
is given 4'general" jurisdiction. Necessarily therefore not only
the criminal causes subsequent to the act of 1899, but the crim.inal causes saved by it, are covered by its provisions. In other
words, the tribunal provided by the act of 1900, whether it is
newly created or an existing one continued, has jurisdiction of
all the criminal causes embraced by the provisions of the act of
March 3, 1899. And it makes no difference that the records
and files "of the.jold court ' are not made records and files "of
the new court." They must be considered as made, as the
,means of exercising the jurisdiction conferred. It being -the
intent of Congress to save "any proceeding or indictment"
found or pending "for any offence committed before the pas,sage."of the act of 1899 in construing the act of 1900, "some
-degree of implication may be called in to aid that intent." 6
Cranch, 314. There is a presumption ag~inst a construction
which would render" a statute ineffective orinefficient or which
would cause grave public injury or even inconvenience.
We find nothing in the cases cited by. plaintiff in error to
defeat our conclqsion. In .MeNulty v Batty et al., 10 How.
'72, there was -a transfer of sovereignty, a Territory became a
State, and it was held "the territorial government ceased to
exist, and all the authority under it, including the laws organizing its courts of justice, and providing for the revision of
their judgments in this court (Supreme Court of the United
States) by appeals or writs of error." All that is material in
Feeborn v $mqth,'2 Wall. 160i depends upon the same consideration. In Insurane Co. v Rithme, 5 Wall. 541, it was
decided that the act of 1833, which -gave the citizens of a State

BIRD v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

the right to sue citizens of the same State in the courts of the
United States, for cause arising under the revenue, laws, was
repealed by a subsequent statute, and that therefore the
national courts had no longer jurisdiction of such causes. In
other words, it was held that, as the jurisdiction depended upon
the statute, it was taken away by the repeal of the statute.
Ex .parte feC6ardle, 7 Wall. 506, Assessors v Osbornes, 9
Wall. 567, Railroad Co. v Grant, 98 U. S. 398, and Unzied
States v Tynen, 11 Wall. 88, were to the same effect. In the
latter case there was not an express repeal of the prior statute,
but it was decided that the latter act effected such repeal upon
the principle that if two acts are "repug n ant in any of their
provisions, the latter act, without any repealing clause, operates to the extent of the repugnancy as a repeal of the first,
and even where two acts are not in express terms repugnant,
yet'if the latter act covers the whole subject of the first, and
embraces new provisions, plainly showing that it was intended
as a substitute for the first act, it will operate as a repeal of'
that act." This principle plaintiff in error relies on and urges
that it was recently asserted and applied in ZXur hy v Utter,
186 U. S. 95. The principle is not pertinent in the view we
take of the statutes.
2. One of the witnesses for the prosecution was, a woman.
She was designated on the indictment by the name of Naomi
Strong. It was contended that Naomi Strong was not her
name, and plaintiff in error objected to-her testimony on the
ground that her true name had not.been furnished on the list
of witnesses given. The objection was overruled and the
ruling is assigned as error. At the request of the plaintiff in
error the -jury was withdr~wn and the witness examined before.
the court as to her name, and she testified that her maiden
name was Naomi Strong, but she .had been married and
divorced. She refused to.give the name of her husband. She
also testified that she had beeh divorced ten or twelve years,
-and upon her divorce she, went by her maiden name. Subsequently she went by the name of Byers, when living with a
man by that name, and, after meeting the plaintiff in error, she
went. by his name. She testified that she met the plaintiff in

126

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opimon of the Court.

error in 1893 or 1894, and left New Orleans with him the 1st
of May, 1898, to join the .expedition to Alaska during which
the homicide was committed. She and plaintiff in error traveled as husband and wife under the name of Mr. and Mrs. Bundick.
The ruling of the court was right. Section 1033 of the
Revised Statutes of the United States requires that in a capital
case the list of the witnesses and jurors .shall be delivered to
the defendant at least two entire days before the trial. By list
of the witnesses is meant a list containing the names of the witnesses, and necessarily this means the names which they then
-bear and which identify them. The purpose of the statute is
to point out to the defendant the person who may testify
against him, and- that is best accomplished by the name the
witnessbears at the time, and not some name that such witness
may have had at some prior time. The present case demonstrates the sense of this. It does not appear how long the witness. had been married, and to have designated her by her
married name might have conveyed no information about her.
A question could be raised whether the objection to the witness
was made in time. logan v United States, 144 U. S. 263.
3. There are errors assigned on the instructions given or
refused, and for their understanding an outline of the facts is
necessary
In the spring of 1898 the plaintiff in error, Hurlin, the deceased, Charles Scheffier, R. S. Patterson and Naomi Strong
organizeda party to prospect in Alaska for gold. Each of the
men was to contribute five hundred dollars for purchasing an
outfit. Scheffier failed with his contribution, and plaintiff in
error.furnished something over one thousand dollars. 'At San
Flancisco, California, a small steam launch and a scow thirtytwo feet long by six feet beam were bought, together with the
usual supply of food, clothing, 6tc.
The party sailed from San Francisco and reached St.
Michael, July 4. Shortly after they started up the Yukon
River, reaching a point in September about six hundred miles
above its mouth, and there determined to go into winter
quarters, and for 'that purpose began the construction of a
-

BIRD v. UNIED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

cabin. Dissensions arose in the party, and the plaintiff in
error and the rest of the party do not agree in their testimony
as to who was in fault. A resolution to separate was formed,
-but its execution was postponed at the request of the plaintiff
in error until the cabin should be finished. The cabin was
finished on September 26. In the meantime there had been
disagreements as to the division of supplies. The homicide
occurred on the morning of the 27th of -September. The witnesses for the prosecution substantially agree that the party
collected for breakfast on that morning-Patterson, Hurlih and
Scheffier going first, the plaintiff in error subsequently joining
them, he seating himself onhis bunk -back of the others, and
they sat as follows Patterson on the right,.Scheffier in the
center and Hurlin on the left.
We may quote from the testimony of the woman. Her
statement was substantially corroborated by the others, their
statements only varied in some details or differences which
arose from their different positions.
"Scheffier and I were talking about a trap I had set to
we were
A.
catch some grouse, andtalking about it, and all-at once I heard Mr. Bird's gun clickshotgun-when he broke it it clicked, of course, and. I looked
up and -he had the gun to his shoulder, and in the meantime
Mr. Scheffier looked around, I think he fired at Mr. Hurlin,
and then Scheffler looked around and held up his hands and
told him for God's sake not to shoot him, and I jumped up
after he fired at Hurlin, and Mr. Patterson kind of jumped
back of me-jumped behind.me like, and I asked Bird not to
shoot, he had the gun to his shoulder all the time, and I
jumped and run, put my bead over Patterson's shoulder and
run through the boat, and just as I passed him in the boat he
fired at Mr. Patterson, and Patterson jumped overboard,
whether the shot struck him when he jumped overboard I
don't know, and in the meantime I jumps out on the beach,
and Mr. Patterson jumps overboard, and Mr. Bird comes running out, climbs over the bow of the boat with tvo guns in
his band-his own and Mr. Scheffier's-and heads Patterson
off, the boat was in the water just kind of half on the beach

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

and half in the water, and so Mr. Patterson wades around on
the side of the boat to get out, and Bird heads him off and
tells him not to come near him, and Patterson kept begging
him not to shoot him, and Bird up with his gan again and
says, ' Bob, you dirty son of a bitch, you're the cause of this,'
and shot at him the second time and Patterson came to the
beach.
"Q. Well, compose yourself, Mrs. Strong, if you can, and go
on and state what occurred there. What happened when Mr.
Patterson got to the beach 2 A. They were all-on the beach
then, and he begged Bird not to shoot him.
"Q. What did he say to him 2 A. He held out his hands
and told him for God's sake to think of his poor family,
"Q. What did Bird say 2 A. I don't remember any more
what he did say, I think he says,' Bob, I have thought of our
families,' or something like that.
"Q. At the time he fired at Hurlin, did you see what Mr.
Hurlin did 2 Immediately after, as far Hurlin was concerned?
Immediately after the shooting of Harlin, what followed [witness sobs], what did he do, Mrs. Strong 2 A. Mr. Hurlin?
"Q. Yes. A. He never moved at all, he sat in the same
position when he was shot.
"Q. Did his body clange position at all 2 A. No, just reoained that way for quite a while.
"Q. Did you see any evidence of a wound on Mr. Hurlin,
anything A. I saw where there was a hole in his head right
here, the left side."
The plaintiff in error claimed to have acted in self-defense.
His testimony will be given hereafter in connection with an
instruction to which it is more particularly pertinent.
In view of the testimony error is based upon the following
instructaon given by the trial court
"In this connection you may consider whether the gun of
the defendant was placed at a point near his bed as stated by
the witnesses for the .proseoution, and whether the defendant
took his gun from the point where it was described to have
been placed by the witnesses for the prosecution, and whether,
.without any act on the part of the deceased or either of those

BIRD v,. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

sitting near him, he maliciously from behind the backs of these
men, when no attack was made against him in any way, wilfully and maliciously shot the deceased, Hurlin, i-the back and
side of the head, thereby taking his life, or, whether the statement of the defendant is true, that aquarrel ensued between
himself and Patterson while discussing their accounts,'that
blows passed between them, and that after hearing the witness
Naomi Strong say, ' They are getting their guns,' if he did hear
,any such thing and if you so find-whether he sprang down to
a point near the water barrel and there seized his gun and immediately raising the same shot Hurlin while he, the said Hurlin, was in the act of attempting.to draw a gun from his sleeping bag;- and if all of that -was true as the defendant states,
whether he was under the necessity of immediately shooting
and killing the said Hurlin in order to protect his own life, or
if, as the situation then appeared to him, such necessity of immediately shooting Hurlin m order to save his own life existed.
"If you find from the evidence that the statements of defendant Bird in these respects are true, and that the statement
of the witnesses of the prosecution are not true, and that the
defendant Bird shot and killed the said Hurlin under circum 7
stances as they then appeared to him necessary for the protection of his own life, then you should find him not guilty
/But if you should further find that the statement of the defendant Bird is true as to the acts of the said iHurlin as'to obtaining his own gun in the manner he described, and yet the
apparent danger was not such as to make it necessary, or
apparently necessary forhim to kill the deceased Hurlin, without giving him any warning-if you find he gave him no warning-and without calling upon him, the said Hurlfn, to -desist
in his efforts to obtain his gun, and that the defendant under
such circumstances shot and killed the deceased Hurlin, without
apparent necessity therefor .in order to preserve his own life,
then you should find the defendant guilty of manslaughter dt
least.
"But in determining this matter, under the evidence before
you, you must consider the situation of the parties at the time
VOL. CLXXXVII-9

OCTOBER TERMI, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

and all the surrounding circumstances, together with the testimony of the witnesses for the prosecution, as well as the evidence of the defendant."
The contention of the plaintiff in error is that the last paragraph "qualified the whole instruction and permeated it with
two errors," because it was in effect declared that even if the
testimony of the witnesses for the government were untrue it
was to be considered in determining the verdict, and because
all of the evidence for the defendant (plaintiff in error) except
his own was withdrawn from the jury in passing on the issue of
self-defence. The instruction is.not open to this criticism when
considered in connection with other instructions. The rule as
to the credibility of witnesses was given in other instructions,
and did not have to accompany every ruling, and the jury were
instructed thatit.was their duty " to consider the whole evidence
and render a verdict in accordance with the facts proved upon the
trial." The injunction was not limited by the paragraph complained of by plaintiff in error. That was preceded by the
following

"In considering whether the killing in tns case was justifiable or excusable on the ground of self-defence, the jury should
consider all the circumstances attending the killing, the conduct
of the parties at the time and shortly prior thereto, and their
You should determtnefrom
respective situations at the time
the evidence in this case whether the several partzes were situated
at the time of the killing as described by the witness for the
prosecution or described by the defendant hinsef"
The italics are ours, and manifestly the injunction was to determine from the whole evidence "the respective situations" of
the "several parties." And the same injunction was expressed
in the concluding paragraph of the instruction. This view
makes it unnecessary to consider at length the instruction requested by plaintiff in error, the refusal of which constitutes
the eighth assignment of error. It selected and gave certain
testimony prominence and attempted to make it determinative
ofa reasonable doubt of the guilt of the plaintiff in error. If
we could concede the correctness of such an instruction the re-

BIRD v. UNITED STATES.
Opimon of the Court.

fusal cannot be chumed as error, if the whole case was submitted to the jury, and we think it was.

4. The seventh, assignment of error is based upon the following instructions
"Evidence has been offered of the escape of .the defendant,
or attempted escape, after arrest on the charge on which the
defendant is now being tried. This evidence is admitted on
the theory that the defendant is in fear of the consequences of
his crime and is attempting to escape therefrom, in other
words, that guilt may be inferred from the fact.of escape from
custody The court instructs you that the inference that may
be drawn from an escape is strong or slight according to the
facts surrounding the party at the time. If a party is caught
in the act of crime and speedily makes an attempt for liberty
under desperate circumstances, the inference of guilt would be
strong, but if the attempt was made after many months of confinement and escape comparatively without danger, then the inference of guilt to be drawn from an escape is slight, but whether
the inference of guilt is strong or slight depends upon the conditions and circumstances surrounding the accused person at
the tnne."
There was no error in the instruction. It submitted to the
jury the attempt to escape as a fact to be considered, not as
determinative of guilt, and Allen v. United States, 164: U. S. 492,
applies, and not Sta)r v United Statesm, 164 U. S. 627. Indeed
when the state of the record is considered the cbarga given was
as favorable to the accused as the law warranted. The only
testimony on the subject of flight related to an escape made
by the prisoner in October following his arrest in June. This
testimony was objected to not because probf of flight was per
8e inadmissible, but solely on the ground that the escape. in
question was too remote from the commission of the offence
.charged and the arrest and imprisonment- of the accused to be
entitled to go to the jury The court overruled the objection
on the ground that it went to the force of the evidence and not
to its admissibility When therefore the court charged the
jury that an attempt to escape "made after many anonths of
confinement" and "comparatively without danger" tended

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.,

only slightly to prove guilt, we think the instruction was not
amenable to ihe criticism made of it. In view of the instruction which the court gave, as just stated, we think the court
committed no error in not giving a more elaborate instruction
on the subject-of flight which was asked by the accused. Everything in the charge asked as applied to the case was embraced
in the charge given.
5. The plaintiff in error requested the court to give an instruction which defined principal and accessory-expressed the legal
value of the testimony of an accomplice and the necessity of
its corroboration to justify a conviction, and submitted to the
jury to determine whether Charles Scheffier and Naomi Strong
were or were not the accomplices of plaintiff in error in the
killing of Hurlin. Assuming without deciding that the mstruction requested expressed the law correctly, it was nevertheless
rightly refused, because there were no facts m the case to justify it. The plaintiff m error testified and claimed to have
killed Hurlin in self-defence. His version of the controversy
which preceded the homicide was as follows
"I says to him, [Patterson] ' You fellows are nophing but a
pack of thieves, you made ten per cent on them bills in Frisco,'
and Patterson says, ' You're a liar ;' I says, ' You're another,'
and with that we dug 'into each other.
"Q. And what happened? A. He struck me and I struck
him.
"Q. Where did you strike hm 2 A. In the eye, and I
knocked him off the sacks and he fell down, and with that
Naomi hollers, ' Look out, Homer, they're getting their guns.'
Hurlin was coming up with his gun under his sleeping bag,
one end of it this way I shot Hurlin, and Patterson ran to
the bow of the boat, he had to stoop like that, and he jumped
for his gun and as he did so, I shot him.
"Q. Come to this map and point out just where you were
when you shot at Hurlin. A. I was in here, I jumped down
here and got the gun and stood right about here, Scheffler and
the woman was here.
"Q. Where was Hurlin 2 A. Hurlin -was here, reachingfor

JACOBI v. ALABAMA.

133

Syllabus.

isgun under the sleeping bags, and had it under his knee like
this way
"Q. And where was Patterson? A. He was lumping from
here over against the edge like-you see the rifle was right in
here. I had.seen that gun there before, for Scheffier had it out
and brought in and set it down there. He was going for that."
It is hardly necessary to point out thatthis testimony shows
the woman to have been an innocent spectator of the fray, and
if Scheffier had any guilty connection with what transpired it
was not as the accomplice of plaintiff in error. Nor did he become an accomplice by not disclosing the homicide until some
time afterward.
We find no error in the other rulings objected to not do they
require particular review
Judgmnt afflrmd.

JACOBI v. ALABAMA.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF ALABAMA.
No. 341.

Argued November 7, 1902.-Decided November 17, 1902.

Plaintiff in error was convicted of assault and the judgment was affirmed
bythe Supreme Court of Alabama; the conviction was the result of a
second trial and the alleged victim who testified at the first trial was not
present at the second trial; the witness was permanently absent from the
State and there was no pretense of absence by procurement, but there
was evidence of diligence in attempting to serve process on her.
Evidence of the former testimony of this witness was admitted against defendant's objections based on several grounds, one of which was that le
had the constitutional right to be confronted by the witness, but as no
reference to the Constitution of the United States was made in the ob3ections, and the constitution of Alabama provides that in all criminal
to be confronted by
prosecutions the accused has a "right
witnesses against him"; Held, that the constitutional right was asserted
under the state, and not the Federal Constitution.
In the state Supreme Court error was assigned to the admission of the evidence as being in vioiation of the Fourteenth Amendment, but as the court
did not refer to that contention, and as the settled rule in Alabama in

