IOWA LIFE INSURANCE CO. v. LEWIS.
Syllabus.

by jury is not demanded, and the court of bankruptcy proceeds
on its own findings of- fact. In such case, the facts and the
law are re~xaminable on appeal, while the verdict of a jury
on which judgment is entered concludes the issues of fact and
the judgment is reviewable only for error of law
And it follows that alleged errors "in instructions given or
refused or in the admission or rejection of evidence" must
appear by exceptions duly taken and preserved by bill of exceptions.
In Denver -Firstlational Bank v .Klug, 186 U. S. 202, the
point raised in this case was not suggested. The question was
whether the case as presented by the record could be brought
by appeal directly to this court, and we held that it could not.
The case did not come within section 5 of the judiciary act of
March 3, 1891, nor within any provision of the bankruptcy act.
The question w answered sn the negative.

IOWA LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY v. LEWIS.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
NORTHEN DISTRICT OF TEXAS.
No. 53. Argued October 21, 22, 1902.-Decided December 8, 1902.

1. As the delivery of a policy of insurance and the payment of the premium
are reciprocal or concurrent considerations and together with the method
of payment are all essential things, it makes no difference, when the first
premium is paid by a note, whether the words "if note be given for the
payment of the premium hereon or any part thereof, and same is not paid
at maturity, the said policy shall cease and determine" be printed upon
the face or the back of the receipt given for the note or in the policy.
As such receipt expressed the conditions upon which the note was received, the memorandum on the back must be considered as embodied in
the policy and the endorsements thereon, as well as in the note and the
receipt given therefor.
2. When the first premium on a policy of insurance is paid by note and a receipt with such an endorsement thereon is given and accepted therefor,
whilst the primary condition of forfeiture for non-payment of the annual
premium is waived by the acceptance of the note, a secondary condition
thereupon comes into operation, by which the policy will be void if the

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Statement of the Case.
note be not paid at maturity and no affirmative action canceling the paolicy is necessary on the part of the insurance company if the note be not
paid when due and presented; and if the policy contains a provision that
no person other than the president or secretary can waive any of the conditions, a local agent has no power to extend the time of payment of the
note after the same has become part due.
3. A life insurance company may by its conduct waive proof of death and
estop itself from setting up the provisions of the policy requiring said
proof.
4. This court will adopt the construction of the state courts of a state statute as to the necessity of a demand being made before commencementof
an action.

THIS is an action upon a life insurance policy, and was originally brought in the District Court of Tarrant County, Texas,
and removed by the defendant, plaintiff in error here, to the
Circuit Court of the United States for the Northern District of
Texas on the ground of diversity of citizenship.
The action was to recover $3000, alleged to have become due
upon a life insurance policy issued by plaintiff in error to
Thomas M. Lewis, the husband of the defendant in error. The
defendant in error also, under the laws of Texas, art. 3071,
Revised Statutes of Texas of 1895, prayed judgment for interest on the said $3000 from the date of the death of the said
Thomas M. Lewis, together with a penalty of twelve per cent
on the amount due, and for an attorney's fee of $150.
The case was tried by a jury and resulted in a verdict for the
defendant in error for $3000, the principal of the policy, with
interest from January 1, 1900, $300 damages, and an attorney's
fee of $500. Judgment was entered in accordance with the
verdict.
The statute of the State of Texas, allowing interest and
attorney fees, was attacked by plaantiff in error as being in
contravention of the Constitution of the United States. The
statute was sustained, and the case was brought here under
section 5 of the Judiciary Act of 1891.
By the policy the plaintiff in error promised to pay defendant in error the sum of $3000 upon the death of Thomas M.
Lewis, if death should occur on or before the fourth day of
March, 1900, and to pay the sum within sixty days after the

IOWA LIFE INSURANCE CO. v. LEWIS.
Statement of the Case.

receipt by plaintiff in error of satisfactory proofs of death and
its cause. Lewis died on the seventh of October, 1899.
The issues in the case besides the constitutionality of the
Texas statute are (1) whether the insurance company waived
proof of death, (2) whether the policy had ceased and determined before the death of the insured by non-payment of the
premium. The evidence bearing upon the issues is as follows
"The first sentence of the policy sued upon, appearing upon
the face thereof,.reads as follows ' The Iowa Life Insurance
Company, in consideration of- the stipulations and agreements
in the application herefor (a copy of which is hereto attached),
and of the provisions and requirements upon the next page of
this policy, all of which are a part of this contract, and in
consideration, also, of the payment of seventy-four dollars
and sixty-one cents, being the premium hereon for the first
year, hereby promises to pay the sum of three thousand dollars
to Lula T. Lewis (wife of the insured) if living, if not living,
to the insured's executors, administrators or assigns (less any
indebtedness of- the insured or beneficiary to this company,
together with the balance of any year's premium remaining
unpaid), within sixty days after receipt and acceptance, at the
company's office in Chicago, Illinois, of satisfa'ctory proofs of
the fact and cause of death, within the terms of this policy, of
the said Thomas M. Lewis, of Fort Worth, county of Tarrant,
State of Texas (the insured under this policy), provided such
death shall occur on or before 12 o'clock noon of the fourth
day of March, A. D. 1900.'
"Upon the second page of the policy is a provision reading
as follows, it being one of the provislons referred to in the
sentence above quoted from the face of the policy 'This
policy is a contract made and to be performed in accordance
with the laws of the State of Iowa, and shall be construed only
in accordance with the charter of said company and the laws
of said State, and shall not go into effect until the premium
hereunder, or a semi-annual or quarterly installment thereof,
shall have been actually paid during the lifetime and continuance, in good health of the insured. Upon payment of.
the premium there shall be delivered a receipt signed by the
voL. oLxxxvii22-

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Statement of the Case.

president or secretary, and countersigned by an authorized
agent.'
"Another provision appearing upon the second page of the
policy, reads as follows ' All agreements made by this company are signed by the president or secretary This power
will not be delegated. No other person can alter or waive any
of the conditions of this policy, or issue permits of any kind,
or make an agreement binding upon said company'
"The policy sued upon is of the kind designated by the defendant as a 'ten-year convertible term stock' policy It is
dated March 13, 1899. The annual premium thereon is $74.61.
"The policy sued upon was issued in pursuance of a written
and printed application therefor made by the insured under
date of March 4, 1899. Said application requests the issuance
of a 'ten-year convertible term stock' policy, and states that
the premium of $74.61 is to be paid annually It concludes
with a recital as follows 'A note for premium of $74.61 has
been paid under this application, to make the insurance binding
from the date hereof, on condition that if the risk is not assumed by the company, this sum is to be returned, in accordance with the receipt given as voucher for said payment.'
"On March 4, 1899, the insured executed and delivered to S.
E. Starn, as agent of the defendant, in partial settlement of his
premium, his note, reading as follows
March 4th, 1899.
"'$37.30.
"'Six month after date I promise to pay to the order of
myself thirty-sevep 30-100 dollars, at Ft. Worth, Texas, value
received, with interest at 6 per cent per annum.
" 'T. M. LEwis, M. D.'
"Which he endorsed in blank as follows 'T. M. Lewis, M.D.'
"On March 5, 1899, S. E. Starn transmitted to the defendant the insured's said application and note with a letter, which
in so far as it is material to this bill of exceptions, reads as follows 'I herewith hand you application of Thomas M. Lewis
for $3000.00, 10-year term con. stock. Also his note to cover
settlement.' These papers were received by the defendant
March 8, 1899, at its office in Chicago.

IOWA LIFE INSURANCE CO. v. LEWIS.
Statement of the Case.

"The application was accepted by the defendant March 13,
1899. The defendant did not signify to Thomas M. Lewis its
acceptance of his application in any way other than by making
out and forwarding to its agent, S. E. Starn, for delivery the
policy sued upon, and the premium receipt hereinafter mentioned, which it did on March 16, 1899.
"On March 18, 1899, S. E. Starn counlersigned the premium
receipt, and delivered it and the policy sued upon to the insured. The policy and receipt were delivered at the same time
and were received by the insured.
"Said premium receipt reads as follows
-

"'

Iowa Life Insurance Company

-

"' Chicago office.
"'Received $74.61, being -the first annual premium due
March 4, 1899, under policy No. 30,140, on the life of Thomas
M. Lewis, subject to the terms of the contract and the conditions on the back hereof.
"'Read the notice to policyholders on the back of this receipt.
"'This receipt is not binding unless it is countersigned by
'C. E. MABIE, Preszdent.
"(Signed)
"'S. E. STARN, Agt, Ft. Worth, Tex.
"'Countersigned this 18th day.of March, 1899.
"' S. E. STA-RN.'
-"(On back of receipt.)

"' For terms of mutual agreement, see application and policy
"'Notice to Policyholders.
"' This receipt, to be valid, must be signed by the president
or secretary of the company, and in exchange therefor, cash or
its equivalent, be given by the holder of the policy, on or before date payment is due and when payment hereon is made to
an authorized agent or collector, such agent or collector must
countersign at the date of payment to him.
"'If note be given for the payment of the premium hereon
or any part thereof, and same is not paid at maturity, the said
policy shall cease and determine.'
"For the first annual premium, the insured gave -the abovedescribed note for $37,30, and agreed to perform p.ofessional

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Statement of the Case.

services for S. E. Starn to the value of the remaining $37.31.
Starn was to furnish professional work to be done by Dr. Lewis
in the examination of applicants for insurance and otherwise
and Dr. Lewis was to do it and let Starn have the fees. No
work ever was done and no money ever was paid to S. E. Starn
or the defendant in pursuance of this verbal arrangement.
Except that the note was given and the verbal agreement
made, as just above stated, the defendant never received, and
.the insured never paid, anything upon account of the premium
for the policy sued upon. S. E. Starn testified that before the
issuance of the policy he reported to the defendant his agreement with Dr. Lewis concerning the payment of the premium.
"The policy sued upon is in the form always used by the
defendant in making contracts of insurance of the kind designated by its 'ten-year convertible term stock' contracts. At
the time of issuing said policy it was the defendant's universal
practice to issue with its policies premium receipts in form like
the one delivered to the insured in this case.
"The defendant never sold or traniferred the note received
by it from the insured, but continued to be the owner thereof
until the time of the trial. Some time before its maturity the
defendant sent said note to S. E. Starn for collection. S. E.
Starn deposited it for collection with the Farmers' & M[echaniCs' National Bank of Fort Worth, Texas, on August 24, 1899.
The bank held the note until September 25, 1899, when it
returned it unpaid to S. E. Starn. The manager of its collection department testified that it would have accepted payment
of the note at any time before its return to S. E. Starn, and
that it had -received no instructions from S. E. Starn with reference to the acceptance of payment after maturity
"S. E. Starn made no effort to collect the note before its
maturity, except that he deposited it in the bank for that purpose, nor had he, up to that time, furnished any professional
work for the insured to do, in pursuance of the verbal agreement, or made any effort to get the insured to do any work;
or pay any money on account of such agreement.
"About September 29, 1899, S. E. Starn called at the residence of the insured in Fort Worth (he being at the time con-

IOWA LIFE INSURANCE CO. v. LEWIS.
Statement of the Case.

fined to his bed from illness, the nature of which was typhoid
fever, and from the effects of which he died October 7) and
there had an interview with the plaintiff and the insured.
Concerning this interview the evidence is conflicting. The
evidence introduced by the plaintiff tended to prove that Starn
stated that he had called for the purpose of collecting the note,
that the plaintiff promised that it should be fixed up at once,
and that Starn stated that it could be paid at any time before
the date on which he was required to make his monthly report,
to wit October 1 following. The evidence was sufficient to
have supported a verdict that this was a fact. Mr. Starn
denied that he called for the purpose of collecting the note,
and demed that he had made the statement that the note could
be paid at any time before October 1, or the date on which he
would make his report to the lefendant.
"Dr. Green, one of the physicians attending the insured,
met Mr. Starn as the latter was coming out of the plaintiff's
house. Starn inquired of the doctor if he intended returning
to the city after seeing his patient. Being answered in the
affirmative, Starn stated that he would wdit in the doctor's
buggy and go up town with him. While the doctor was in the
house the plaintiff requested him to call on X" R. Reeves at the
latter's pharmacy and ask him to pay off the insured's note for
them, held by Starn, the doctor agreeing to do so. Dr. Green
and S. E. Starn rode in the former's buggy from the plaintiff's
residence to the business portion of the city of Fort Worth.
Mr. Starn left the buggy as soon as the business portion of the
city was reached and Dr. Green drove immediately to Reeves'
pharmacy and indicated to him the plaintiff's request. Mr.
Reeves agreed to pay off the note as requested, and the doctor
agreed to notify Starn.
"Concerning the conversation which ensued between Dr.
Green and Mr. Starn on the way to .town, the evidence is conflicting. Dr. Green testified that Mr. Starn stated that he had
called at the plaintiff's house to collect the note. Mr. Starn
denied having made such statement.
"Some time during the afternoon of this day Dr. Green
notified S. E; Starn that X R. Reeves, the druggist, would pay

OCTOBER TERTI1, 1902.
Statement of the Case.

off the note. Concerning the conversation which occurred between Dr. Green and Starn immediately following this notification, the evidence is conflicting. Dr. Green testified that
Starn. said he would go down to the pharmacy for that purpose, that some statement was made about his going to Reeves'
pharmacy to get the money that evening, and that Starn said
it would not be necessary, that he would go down by nine or
ten o'clock the next morning. S. E. Starn testified" that he
.stated to Dr. Green that he would call anid see Mr. Reeves the
next morning.
"The night following this interview Mr. Starn sent to the
defendant a night-rate telegram, reading as follows
"'Fort Worth, Texas, September 29, '99.
"'Iowa Life Ins. Co., Chicago
"' Dr. T. Mv.Lewis offers to pay premium to-day Very sick.
Shall I receive it?
S.E. STA.RN.'
"The next mormng, September 30, 1899, the defendant,
through its secretary, telegraphed to S. E. Starn as follows
"'To S. E. Starn, 615 Grove St., Fort Worth, Texas
"'Do not accept payment on note due September 4. Answer.
"' R. E. SACiKTT, Sec.'

"On the same day defendant wrote to S. E. Starn a letter
reading as follows

"'Mr S. E. Starn, 615 Grove St., Fort Worth, Texas.
"' Dear Sir We are in receipt of your telegram as follows"Dr. T. M. Lewis offers to pay premium to-day Very sick.
Shall I receive it2 " to which wv replied as follows "Do not
accept payment of -note- due September 4. Answer." We
presume this telegram refers to policy No. 30,140, Thomas M.
Lewis, $3000, convertible- term, premium $31.60, upon which
note was received at this office in the sum of $3'1.30, due September 4, 1899, and whrch was sent to you for collection.
"'Very truly yours,

R. E. SACKEr, Sec'

"Some time in the morning of September 30, 1899, S.B.
Starn called at the pharmacy of -JR. Reeves, and Mr. Reeves

I

IOWA LIFE INSURANCE CO. v. LEWIS.
Statement of the Case.

informed him that be had the money to pay off the Lewis note
and had been waiting for him. Mr. Stan thereupon informed
Mr. Reeves that he could not accept the payment of the note
because he had received a telegram from the company instructing him not to do so. Later in the day Mr. Reeves and Dr.
Green called on Mr. Starn, and Reeves made a tender of the
amount of the note, Which Starn refused to accept. Reeves
kept the money he tendered to Starn and did not pay or deliver
same to the plaintiff or the insured or to any one for them, and
had no interview with the plaintiff or the insured.
"On the same day Starn telegraphed the defendant as follows:
"' Fort Worth, Texas, September 30th, '99.
"'Iowa Life Ins. Co., Chicago
"'Ihave refused payment on Lewis policy this 10:30 A. M.
" ' S. E. STARN.'

"The only testimony with regard to any consideration for
the promise claimed by the plaintiff to have been made to her
by S. E. Starn that he would accept payment of the note is
the following passage from the cross-examination of the plaintiff 'Q. Did you pay Mr. Starn anything 2 A. No, sir.
Q. He simply told .you he had come to see the doctor about his
note, and that it ought to be fixed up, and you said you would
attend to it 2 A. Yes, sir. Q. That is all that occurred between you? A. Yes, sir.'
"The attention of the plaintiff was not directed to the fact
that she was being questioned concerning a consideration for
the extension of the time for payment of note other than is
indicated by the questions put to her.
".At the request of the defendant,S. E. Starn returned to it
the note of the insured, which thereafter continued in the defendant's possession. The defendant never offered to return
the note to the insured and never before the death of the insured did anything in the way of an affirmative forfeiture or
cancellation of the policy, and no communication passed between the defendant and S. E. Starn regarding said note between the transnriission of the note to Starn for collection and
Starn's above-quoted telegram of September 29, 1899.

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

"Except for the evidence upon the question of the extent of
S. E. Starn's authority the foregoing is a full statement of all
material facts upon the issue of the forfeiture of the policy
sued upon for non-payment of the premium note, and the
waiver of such forfeiture."
Air .Afaurwe E. -Locke for plaintiff in error.

Xi, JAichaelJ Colbert for defendant in error. 2rr William Capps.and Kr S. B. Cantey were with him on the brief.
MR. JUsTICE NCKENNA, after making the foregoing statement,
delivered the opinion of the court.

1.It will be observed that there, was printed upon the back
of the receipt given for the first premium the following" "If
note be given for the payment of the premium hereon, or any
part thereof, and same is not paid at maturity, the said policy
shall cease and determine." The contention of plaintiff in
error is that such provision constituted a part of the contract,
and contending alsdtbat the note was not paid, it urges that the
policy ceased and determined. The same contention was made
in the trial court but rejected. The court held that the provision on the back of the receipt constituted no part of the contract, and instructed the jury, against the objection of plaintiff
in error, "that the contract by its own explicit terms, 1s wholly
included in the policy-the life insurance proper, and in the
application for guch life insurance policy, which, by the terms
of the policy, is made a part of the contract. This is recited
to be the case in the face of the policy and on the back of the
receipt itself. Under the provmsons and stzvpulations of these
two nsmtuments, by the passvng of the znsurance policy to the
deceased and the note of the deceased and h promie to pay to
the 'nsurance company, the mnds of the snsurance company
and the deceased met, upon the conditions andprovisons of the
note, contract and the applicationfor the nsurane,which made
apart of the contract. In the opinion of the court there was no
meeting of the minds, or agreement between the parties as to the

IOWA LIFE INSURANCE CO. r

LEWIS.

Opimon of the Court.

proivi8( vzpon the back of the receipt. [The italics are ours.]
Such provision isnowhere noted inthe face of the contract of
insurance; it isnowhere noted in the application for the insurance, and the only place it isfound is upon the back of the
receipt, no reference being made to any such provision elsewhere. Even if the provision were considered a part of the
contract entered into between the parties, yet it is such a provision that, if taken advantage of, would require affirmative
action on the part of the company, that is to say, when the
note was not paid at maturity the company should have within
a reasonable time -thereafter notified the insured that in view
of the fact that his note given in part payment of the premium
upon the policy had not been paid, the policy, which was issued
in consideration of such note, ceased and determined. There
is no evidence that any such action was taken on the part of
the insurance company"
The court also instructed the jurv "that it was the duty of
the company to notify the insured of the non-payment of the
note, and that the policy, because of such non-payment, had
ceased and determined, and that the company would no longer
be liable thereunder."
As these instructions expressed the conception of the law and
the rights of the parties as entertained by the- court, the court,
also regardingthe conduct of the company as waiving proofs
of death, naturally instructed the jury that it was its "duty to
return a verdict for the plaintiff for the face of the policy," with
interest and penalty, and attorney's fees, as prescribed by the
Texas statute. "Tins, therefore," said the court, "leaves to
the jury but one question to determine, the fixing of reasonable
attorney's fees for the prosecution of this suit."
Were the instructions correct I And first, as to what papers
constituted the contract.
The delivery of a policy of insurance and the payment of
the premium are reciprocal or concurrent considerations.
Necessarily, therefore, the payment of the premium c4n be
exacted simultaneously with the delivery of the policy Of
course, such payment can be waived and a note-the credit of
the assured-accepted, either absolutely or upon conditions.

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
OpiniQn of the Court.

And we do not see how it can make any difference where the
conditions are expressed-whether in the policy, in the note or
in the receipt given for the premium, or whether on the face of
the latter or on its back. The agreements of parties may be
expressed in many papers, and if the connection of the papers
is not apparent it may be shown by parole. The present case
does not even need the aid of that rule. The receipt expressed
the conditions upon which the note was received-unmistakably expressed them. The receipt of the premium was expressed to be "subject to the terms of .the contract and the
conditions on the back" of the receipt. And the assured was
directed to read the notice upon the back of the receipt. The
notice was as follows "If note be given for the..payment of
the premium hereon or any part thereof, and same is not paid
at maturity, the said policy shall cease and determine."
It is not contended that it was not competent for the company to make the condition. It is asserted that it did not
become a part of the contract upon which the minds of the
parties met-that the minds of the parties only met upon the
application, the policy and the note. We cannot assent to this
view The paymeiit of the premium was a very essential
thing, and the manner of its payment, whether in cash or by
note, and provision for the payment of the note and the effect
of its non-payment, were also essential things, and necessarily
must have been of mutual concern to the parties and upon
which their minds' must be considered as having met. To hold
-otherwise would be to hold that the parties were indifferent to
that which materially concerned them. It was certainly of
concern to the assured to know whether he would be indebted
upon an 'overdue note or whether his insurance had lapsed.
All of the papers, therefore, embodied the agreement of the
parties. In . 8uranQe Co. v. Norton,, 96 U S. 234, the agreement was considered as "embodied in the policy and the
endorsement thereon, as well as in the notes and the receipt
given therefor." (page 240.)
2. But determining that the minds of the parties met upon
the receipt does not solve the main question in the case. The
receipt provides that, if the note, or any part of it, be not paid

IOWA LIFE INSURANCE CO.-v. LEWIS.
Opuuon of the Court.

at maturity, the policy shall "cease and determine." What
does this mean? That the policy shall cease and determine at
the occurrence of maturity, or at the option and upon some
affirmative action of the company 2 The latter is the contention of the defendant in error and, as we have seen, the ruling
of the trial court, the former is the contention of the plaintiff
in error. Upon the issue thus made the cases are not harmonious. The decisions of this court, however, support the contention of plaintiff in error.
In .'Tew Fork Lfe lIsurance Company v Statham et al., 93
U. S. 24, Mr. Justice Bradley, delivering the opinion ofthe
court, said- "Promptness of payment is essential in the busiDelinquency cannot be tolerness of life insurance.
ated nor redeemed, except at the option of the company
Time is material and of the essence of the contract.
Non-payment at the day involves absolute forfeiture, if such be
Courts cannot with safety
the terms of the contract.
vary the stipulation of the parties by introducing equities for
the relief of the insured against their own negligence." The
intervention of war was held not to avoid a forfeiture.
This case was quoted and its doctrine announced again in
.Klewm v Insurance Co., 104 U. S. 88, and again in Thompson
v In8urance Co., 104. U S. 252.
In Klem v. .nsurance Co. it was said " If the assured can
neglect payment at maturity and yet suffer no lbss or forfeiture, premiums will not be punctually paid. The companies
must have some efficient means of enforcing punctuality
Hence their contracts usually provide for the forfeiture of
the policy upon default of prompt payment of the premiums.
If they are not allowed to enforce this forfeiture they are
deprived of the means which they have reserved by their
contract of compelling the parties insured to meet their engagements, The provision, therefore, for the release of the
company from liability on the failure of the insured to
pay the premiums when due is of the very essence and substance of the contract of life insurance. To hold the company to its promise to pay the insurance, notwithstanding
the default of the assured in malkng punctual payment of

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opimon of the Court.

the premiums, is to destroy the very substance of the contract."
A forfeiture, of course, may be waived, for the obvious reason expressed in Inurance Co. v Nrn, 96 U. S. 235, "a
party always has the option to waive a condition or stipulation
made in his own favor," and an agent can be given such power
and whether it has been given or not may be proved by parol.
The latter ,case is an important one. The policy provided
'that not only a failure to pay any premium, but "the failure to
pay at maturity any note, obligation or indebtedness (other
than the annual credit or loan) for premium. or interest due
under said policy or contract, shall then and thereafter cause
said policy to be void without notice to any party or parties interested therein."
' The court not only asserted the doctrine of strict punctuality
of payment ad diem, but applied the rule to a note for part
payment.
Expressing its view of forfeitures, the court said- "Forfeitures are not favored in the law They are often the means of
great oppression and injustice. And, where adequate compensation can be made, the law in many cases, and equity in all
cases, discharges the forfeiture, upon such compensation being
made. It is true, we held in Statham's case, 93 U. S. 24, that
in life insurance, time of payment is material, and cannot be
extended by the courts against the assent of the company But
'where such assent is given, the courts should be liberal in con.struing the-transaction in favor 6f avoiding a forfeiture."
We shall presently consider how far these principles apply to
a claim of waiver of forfeiture in the case at bar. Our present
inquiry is when and how does forfeiture occur, and it seems an
obvious conclusion from the cited cases that forfeiture occurs
upon non-payment of the premium ad diem. But against the
conlusion Isurance Co. v Fench, 30 Ohio St. 240, and its
approval by this court in Thompson v Insurance Co. are cited.
It was contended in the latter case that the mere taking of
notes in payment of the premium was, in itself, a waiver of
the conditional -forfeiture, and Insurance Company v. FTench,
30 Ohio St. 240, was cited to support the. contention. To the

IOWA LIFE INSURANCE CO. v. LEWIS.
Opinion of the Court.

contention and citation it was replied "But,. m that case, no
provision was made in the policy for a forfeiture in case of the
non-payment of a note given for the premium, and an unconditional receipt for the premium had been given when the note
was taken, and this fact was specially adverted to by the court.
We think that the decision in that case was entirely correct.
But in this case the policy does contain an express condition to
be void if any note given in payment of premium should not
be paid at maturity We are of opinion, therefore, that whilst
the primary condition of forfeiture for non-payment of the annual premium was waived by the acceptance of the notes, yet,
that the.secondary condition thereupon came into operation, by
which the policy was to be void if the notes were not paad at
maturity"
A review of ]nsurance Conmany v. Frenk is demanded.
Was the reasoning in that case approved or only its conclusion 2
The policy passed upon contained a provision for forfeiture if
the premzum should not be paid, but no provision for forfeiture if Tremm n notes should not be paid. The receipt which
had been given was absolute. The provision for forfeiture was
contained in the note. The case was somewhat complicated by
questions of fact regarding the power of the company's agent
to accept the notes or to grant extensions of time, but that the
power existed was accepted as concluded by the verdict. The
insurance company, nevertheless, asserted as a conclusion from
the non-payment of the note that the policy had been forfeited.
To this the court (Supreme Court of Ohio) replied
"In most of the cases which have been cited in argument
the policy contained a clause, that it should be void upon nonpayment of the premium, or any note given for such premium.
This policy, however, contains no clause of avoidance for the
non-payment of notes given for preminm.
"It is not insisted that the non-payment of the check alone
forfeited the policy, but it is claimed that failure to pay the
note does work out this result. It will be seen that the note
stipulates in terms that, if it is ' not paid at maturity, said policy
is to be null and void.'
"It cannot be successfully maintained that this clause makes

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opimon of the Court.

the policy absolutely void upon non-payment of the note.
Under the authorities such a clause, being introduced for the
benefit of the insurance company, means that the policy shall
be void if the company insist upon it, but it is their option to
say whether tins result shall follow or not."
And further"We, therefore, cannot consider payment of this note as
absolutely neoessary before the renewal attached. It may not
perhaps be necessary to hold, as did the court below, that demand of payment the day the note was due was necessary to
work a forfeiture, but certainly something must be done between the date the note was due and the end of the year to
establish and proclaim the forfeiture, or it must be held to be
waived."
To sustain the conclusion the following Illinois cases were
cited Teutonza Lsfe Ins. Co. v Anderson, 77 Illinois, 38,
llinows CentralIns. Co. v Woy, 37 Illinois, 354:, Provwent
Life ]ns. Co. v Fennell, 49 Illinois, 180. The court also cited
,olife v Madison Ins. Co., "39 Wisconsin, 119, and quoted
the following principle "Forfeitures are not favored m the
law, and will not be sustained upon mere inferences. Where,
upon breach by one party of a condition or stipulation in a
contract, the other party thereto has the option to declare the
contract forfeited, and thu relieve himself from liability upon
it, and seeks to exercise such option, he must do so unconditionally, and in plain, positive, and unmistakable terms."
And the court finally concludes that, "in the case at bar, the
company should not have retained the check and note, and remained silent, as they did. Yet it appears that on July 6,
1868, when Simpson refused the premium for that year, French
offered to give up ins policy if the company would return his
check and note. This was refused."
What, then, did this court mean by pronouncing the decision
in Ins urance Company v French as " entirely correct 2" Were
the various principles the law expressed in that case approved
or only the conclusion of the court from the facts? Did this
court intend to approve the proposition that to cause a forfeiture some affirmative action was necessary by the company-a

IOWA LIFE LNURANOE CO. v. LEWIS.
Opinon of the Court.

declaration to that effect and the surrender of the premium
notes 9 To hold the latter would be to hold that this court intended to reverse a number of decisions made upon careful consideration: Indeed it would be contrary to the reasoning m
the very opinion m which the French case is approved. A
replication was set up alleging a usage of the insurance com
pany to give notice to the assured of the date of payment and
answering it this court said "This is no excuse for non-payment. The assured knew, or was bound to know, when his
The reason why the insurance
premiums became due.
company gives notice to its members of the time of payment
of premiums is to aid their memory and to stimulate them to
prompt payment. The company is under no obligation to give
such notice, and assumes no responsibility by giving it. The
duty of the assured to pay at the day is the same, whether
notice be given or not."
And again, as to the usage of the company not to demand
punctual payment at the day, or to give thirty days of grace,
it was said "This was a mere matter of voluntary indulgence
on the part of the company, or, as the plaintiff herself calls it,
an act of ' lemency '"
In pur other decisions, which we have cited, it was held that
time is the essence of the contract, and non-payment at the day
involves absolute forfeiture. In none of. the cases was there
any affirmative action by the company. Forfeiture occurred
from non-payment of the premium. The same principle was
announced and illustrated in Lfe I.urance Compaunj v Pendleton, 112 U. S. 696. In that case a foreign bill of exchange
was accepted in payment of the premium, but upon presentation to the drawee was not accepted. There was some controversy as to whether it was presented for payment. The trial
court (Circuit Court of the United States) held (7 Fed. Rep.
169) and instructed the jury that the true measure of the duty
of the company was to be found in the rules of law governing
the holder of commercial paper, that by taking the draft the
company assumed all of the duties of the holder of such paper,
and that it was, therefore, the duty of the company to have
had the draft protested and to have given notice of non-accept-

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

ance as a condition of forfeiture. This court disagreed with
the Circuit Court and held that protest and notice were not
necessary In other words, held, not the law of commercial
paper, but the contract of the parties determined the conditions
of forfeiture, and that the contract of the parties was expressed
in the draft to be that the policy should become void if the
draft was not paid at maturity "We think it clear," was
said.
"Therefore, that notwithstanding the-renewal receipt, the
condition expressed in the draft was binding on the insured.
As we have shown, that condition was that the policy should
become void if the draft was not paid at maturity The draft,
being without grace, matured on the 14th of October, 1871.
If -not paid on that day the policy was forfeited, unless it was
the usage of the New Orleans banks to grant days of grace
even whenthey were waived, of which there was some evidence
on the trial. In such case the forfeiture would take place, if
the draft were not paid on the 17th of October. Of course, it
must be presented for payment on the one day or the otherfor the drawees could notpay it unless it was presented, for they
would not know where to find it. But supposing it to have
been presented for payment, and payment refused by the
drawees, the condition 'of forfeiture was complete. Protest and
notice of non-payment might be further necessary to hold the
drawer, if the insurance company desired to hold him but they
were not necessary to the forfeiture. That occurred when nonpayment at maturity or presentation occurred. The drawer,
Pendleton, who took entire charge of .the policy for his children, put its existence on the condition of payment of the draft
at maturity, and it was his business, as agent or guardian, of
his children, to see that the draft was thus paid, that the requisite funds were in the hands of the drawees, or that they
would pay it whether in funds or not. Such, we think, was the
clear purport7of the condition, and as the court below took a
different view, holding that the insurance company was bound
not only to present the draft for payment, but to have it protested for non-payment, -before a forfeiture of the policy _ould
ensue, the judgment must be reversed."

IOWA LIFE INSURANCE CO. v. LEWIS.
Opinion of the Court.

See also same case, 115 U. S. 339.
It has been held in cases in the state courts, as i Insrance
Co. v. French,that no forfeiture is incurred until notice by the
company has been given that it is claimed. And other cases
hold that when the oondition of forfeiture is in the note only,
the mere fact of non-payment at maturity does n6t of itself
avoid the policy A review of the cases we do not consider
necessary We prefer to follow our own decisions.
Some of those decisions hold, however, as we have seen, that
a waiver of forfeiture may be inferred from the conduct of the
company, and that "courts seize hold of any circumstances
that indicate an election or intent to waive a forfeiture." In8urane Co. v. Norton, 96 U. S. 244.
We do not think such circumitances exist in this case. Of
course, such circumstances must have come from the company
or from its agent acting within his authority In the case at
bar we need only look at that which took place after the note
was given. What preceded that, including the arrangement
between Starn,-the agent of plaintiff in error, and the assured,
for the employment of the latter by the former, must be considered as having been approved by the company Its rights
and the rights of the assured depend, therefore, upon what it
did in regard to the note before or after it became due or what
S tarn did within his authority The company did nothing but
send the note to-Starn for collection, and Starn deposited it for
collection with the Farmers' and Mechanics' National Bank of
Fort Worth, Texas, on August 24, 1898-a month before it was
due. The assured did nothing, made no movement, as far as
the record shows, for its payment. In other words, the day
of maturity came and went, and the note was not paid, and the
condition upon which the policy should "cease and determine"
occurred, unless Starn's authority lasted and could be exercised
after the note became due. He received the note back from
the bank on the 25th of September, and on the 29th of September he called at the residence of the assured-the latter
then being confined to his bed with typhoid fever (of which he
died October 7). The evidence of what transpired there was
conflicting, but the record admits would have supported a verVOL. CLXXXvii-23

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

diet; "that Starn stated that he had called for the purpose
of collecting the note, that the plaintiff pronsed that it should
be fixed at once, and that Starn stated that it could be paid at
any time before the date on which he was required to make
his monthly report, to wit October 1st following." And it
must also be accepted as true that Starn told Dr. Green that
he (Starn) had called at Lewis' house to collect the note, and
that the doctor notified Starn that Reeves, the druggist, would
pay it, and the latter, on September 30, in the presence of Dr.
Green, tendered the amount of the note to Starn, who refused it.
On the 29th of September, as set out in the statement of facts,
Starn telegraphed to the company that Lewis offered to pay
the premium, and asked if he should receive it. On the 30th
the company replied in the negative, and on the same day wrote
to Starn. Were Starn's acts authorized 2 They can only be
so held as an inference from the authority given him to collect
the note. In other words, that the authority to collect the note
conferred authority to extend the time of payment and to waive
the forfeiture which had occurred by non-payment. It would
be difficult to so hold even if his contract with the company
did not forbid the exercise of such power and the provisions
of the policy preclude it. The policy provides as follows "All
agreements made by this company are signed by the president
or secretary This power will not be delegated. No otherperson can alter or waive any of the conditions of this policy, or
issue permits of any lknd, or make an agreement binding upon
said company"
And the contract constituting Starn the company's agent
contains the following "The party of the second part agrees
to submit to and abide by all rules and regulations of said comAgents are not authorized to collect any repany
newal premium after the day on which the same becomes due,
except in accordance with special instructions from the company in each individual case."
There is no evidence of any course of dealing of the company
or of Starn wnich enlarged or modified these instructions, or
which induced and excused the default of the assured.
3. The. Circuit Court instructed the jury substantially that

IOWA. LIFE INSURANCE CO. v. LEWIS.
Opinion of the Court.

the plaintiff in error was estopped from setting up the provision
of the policy requiring proofs of death. The instruction is
assigned as error. We concur with the Circuit Court. The
conduct of the company was tantamount to a waiver. Life
1z8urance Co. v Pedleton, 112 U. S. 696.
4. Notwithstanding our decision in .futua Life A8soozation v .MettZer,185 U. S. 308, the plaintiff in error urges the
unconstitutionality of the Texas statute, authorizing the recovery of damages and attorney's fees for failure by life and health
insurance companies to pay losses. We are, however, entirely
satisfied with the case and its reasoning.
It is insisted, however, that to justify a recovery of the statutory damages demand of payment of the policy before suit
was necessary, notwithstandin the denial of liability by the
company The contention is sustained by the decision of the
Court of Civil Appeals of Texas in the case of the NYorthwetm'r.ife Assurance Co. v. &tbrdivant, 24 Tex. Civ App. 331.
That case also decided "that the suit itself would not be such demand as the statute intended." It was held, however, that
demand could be made after suit and set up by "an amended
petition, as an original suit." The Supreme Court of Texas
refused a writ of error to review the case. 94 Texas, '06. We
may therefore adopt its construction of the state statute. It
can be easily conformed to by defendant in error if a new trial
of the case at bar be prosecuted.
On account of the errors indicated
The yudjgm'ent of the Circuit Court is r-eversed and the cause
remanded with directions to award a new tral.

