FIDELITY & DEPOSIT CO. v. UNITED STATES.

315

Syllabus.

N'ashville 1R. R. Co., and Blythe v Hincley, stpra. This being
the case, it is obvious that on this record either the motion to
dismiss must be allowed or the motion to affirm granted, and
that the allowance of the one or the granting of the other as
a practical question will have the like effect, to finally dispose
The question then is, To which of the
of this controversy
motions should the decree which we are to render respond 2 As
this is a case governed by the principles controlling writs of
error to state courts, it follows that the Federal question upon
which the jurisdiction depends is also the identical question
upon which the merits depend, and therefore the unsubstantiality of the Federal question for the purpose of the motion to dismiss and its unsubstantiality for the purpose of the
motion to affirm are one and the same thing, that is, the two
questions are therefore absolutely co6terminous. Hence, in reason, the denial of one of the motions necessarily involves the
denial of the other, and hence also one of the motions cannot
be allowed except upon a ground which also would justify the
allowance of the other. Under this state of the case (there being of course no inherently Federal question, Swafford v Templeton, suit,) we think the better practice is to cause our decree
to respond to the question which arises first in order for decision, that is, the motion to dismiss, and therefore
The wr' of errort8 dismessed.

FIDELITY AND DEPOSIT COMPANY OF MARYLAND v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.

No. 381. Submitted October 31,1902.-Decided December 1, 1902.
1. Thins court has already sustained the power of the Supreme Court of the
District of Columbia to adopt a rule providing that if the plaintiff or his
agent shall file an affidavit in any action arising ex contractu setting out
distinctly his cause ofaction, etc., and serve the defendant with copies
thereof and of the declaration, he shall be entitled to judgment unless the
defendant shall file, along with his plea, if in bar, an affidavit of defence

OCTOBER TERAI, 1902.
Statement of the Case.
denying the right of the plaintiff as to the whole or some specific part of
his claim, and specifically also the grounds of his defence, and has also
sustained the validity, of the rule as adopted (No. 73) by said court.
Smoot v. Rittenhouse, decided January 10, 1876.
The rule as adopted does not deprive a defendant who files a plea in bar
and demands a trial by jury, but who also fails to file the affidavit of defence required by the rule, of a right to a trial by jury, but simply prescribes the means of making an issue in regard to which, if the same be
made as prescribed, the right of trial by jury accrues.
2. Congress has-the power to change forms of procedure and it has been
decided by this court, (Smoot v. Bittenhouse, supra,) that the power to
enact rules of procedure has been delegated to tlia Supreme Court of the
District of Columbia.
3. Exceptions based on disputable cnsiderations of the spirit of the rule
will not be taken against the interpretation of the Supreme Court of the
District of Columbia, which has administered the rule for many years.
4. In this case it was held that the affidavit filed by the plaintiff in error,
defendant below, was not sufficient to comply with the rule.

THIS action was brought in the Supreme Court of. the District
of Columbia, by defendant in error, against one Peyton D
Vinson, as principal and plaintiff. in error as surety, on certain
bonds, to recover the sum of $530.06. One of the bonds was
in the penal sum of '$25,000, for the faithful performance of the
covenants and conditions of a contract entered into by said
Vinson with the District of Columbia. It was covenanted in
the bond that Vinson would "promptly make payments to all
persons supplying him with labor or materials in the prosecution
of the work provided for in said contract." And it was alleged
in the declaration that Lewis E. Smoot furnished said Vinson
certain materials, which were used by the latter in the completion
of the work under the contract, of the value of $599.73, of
which amount only $206.95 was paid, leaving a balance of
$392.78 due.
The other bond was for the penal sum of $6000, with like
covenants and conditions. The declaration alleged that said
Smoot furnished materials of the value of $143.28 to Vinson,
which were used in the performance of the latter's contract with
the District of Columbia, and that said amount was not paid,
though demanded. And recoverT of said amounts due was
prayed against Vinson and the plaintiff in error, amounting to

FIDELYIY & DEPOSIT CO. v. UNITED STATES.

317

Statement of the Case.

the sum of $530.06. The declaration was accompanied by an
affidavit made by Smoot under the requirements of rule 73 of
the court, hereinafter set out. The affidavit was very full and
circumstantial, and virtually repeated the declaration.
The plaintiff in error filed pleas to the declaration, in which
it alleged that neither it nor Vinson owed the sums of money
demanded, or any part of either, "in the manner and form as
the said United States above complained." And also pleaded
that neither it nor Vinson had broken the conditions, or any of
them, on said bonds "in the manner and form as the said
United .States had above complained."
The plaintiff in error on March 14, 1902, filed the following
affidavit of defence
",: Sprigg Poole, being first duly sworn, deposes and says
"1. That he is now, and for ten years last past has been, the
general agent for the District of Columbia, of the Fidelity and
Deposit Company of Maryland, the defendant in the above-entitled cause.
"2. That the said defendant admits the execution of the
bonds as alleged in the declaration in said cause.
"3. That the said defendant, its officers and agents, has no
personal knowledge of the contracts alleged in said declaration
to have been entered into by and between Lewis E. Smoot and
Peyton D. Vinson, or of the indebtedness alleged to be due
from said Vinson to said Smoot under said alleged contracts,
that the said defendant, its officers and agents, has not sufficient
information, in the opinion of the affiant and of the counsel of
said defendant, its attorney of record in said cause, to be safe
in admitting or denying under oath the allegations of said declaration in regard to said contracts between said Smoot and
Vinson, or the indebtedness thereunder, and in so far as said
defendant is sought to be charged with the payment of said
alleged indebtedness from Vinson to Smoot it calls for strict
proof of said alleged indebtedness.
"4. That said defendant is advised by its counsel that it is
entitled under the law of the land to trial by jury as to the
truth of the allegations of the declaration in regard to said alleged contracts between the said Smoot and Vinson and the

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Statement of the Case.

alleged indebtedness under said contracts, that said defendant
does not waive, but expressly claims, the benefit of the right of
trial by jury, and prays that this honorable court will not enter
judgment against it, the said defendant, without trial by jury
upon the issues tendered by the pleas filed to said declaration.
"That this prayer for trial by jury is not made for the purpose of delay, but solely because the defendant is advised by
counsel and believes that, under the law of the land, it is entitled to trial by jury in this cause, and that it cannot waive or
surrender that right without exposing itself to the danger of
being deprived of its property without due process of law"
On the 18th of March the defendant in error filed a motion
"for judgment, under the seventy-third rule, for failure of the
defendant to file with his plea a sufficient affidavit of defence'
Upon hearing, the motion was granted and judgment entered
as prayed for in the declaration. The judgment was affirmed
by the Court of Appeals, and the case was then brought here.
The seventy-third rule is as follows
"In any action arising ex con ada, if the plaintiff or his
agent shill have filed, at the time of bringing his action, an
affidavit setting out distinctly his cause of action, and the sum
-he claims to be due, exclusive of all set-offs and just grounds of
defence, and shall have served the defendant with copies of his
declaration and of said affidavit, he shall be entitled to a judgment for the amount so claimed, with interest and costs, unless
the defendant shall file, along with his plea, if in bar, an affidavit of defence denying the right of the plaintiff as to the
whole or some specified part of his claim, and specifically stating also, in precise and distinct terms, the grounds of his defence, which must be such as would, if true, be sufficient to defeat the plaintiff's claim in whole or in part. And where the
defendant shall have acknowledged in his affidavit of defence
his liability for a part of the plaintiff's claim as aforesaid the
plaintiff, if he so elect, may have judgment entered in his favor
for the amount so confessed to be due.
"SEc. 2. The provisions of this rule shall not apply to defendants who are representatives of a decedent's estate except when
the affidavit filed with the declaration sets forth that the con-

FIDELITY & DEPOSIT CO. v. UNITED STATES.

319

Opimon of the Court.

tract sued on was directly with such representative, or that a
promise to pay was made by him.
"SE . 3. When the defendant is a corporation, the affidavit
of defence- may be made by an officer, agent or attorney of such
corporation.
"Rules of the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia
adopted at the April -term, 1898, p. 28."
.Y?- L. I..Poole for plaintiff m error.
Mr Cranda iackey for defendants in error.
MM.

TUSTIOE

VcKENNA, after making the foregoing statement,

delivered the opinion of the court.
The principal assignments of error are reducible to these contentions (1) The court had no power to enact the rule, (2)
that
the rule was invalid, m that it deprived defendants of due process of law and the right of trial by jury, in contravention of
the Constitution of the United States and "the mode of proof
of trial" prescribed by Revised Statutes, sec. 861 et seq.
1. The rule was formerly number 75 and has existed a long
time. The Court of Appeals of the District has sustained its
validity in a number of cases. This court also sustained its
validity in Soot v Rittenhiouse, decided Tanuary 10, 1876.
The case is questioned as authority because, it is said, that
"if this court upheld a rule of such important character and
doubtful validity it would give the grounds of its decision."
But the objection assumes that the court had doubts. The better inference is that the court regarded the grounds of challenge
to the validity of the rule as without foundation. And its
validity was challenged and necessarily passed on, which disposes of the contention that the decision was based on another
point.
2. There is but one element in this contention-the right of
a jury trial. In passing upon it we do not think it necessary to
follow the details of counsel's elaborate argument. In Smoot
v. Rittenhouse, supra, the validity of the rule was sustained as

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

well as the power of the court to make it. If it were true that
the rule deprived the plaintiff in error of the r-ght of trial by
jury, we should pronounce it void without reference to cases.
But it does not do so. It prescribes the means of making an
issue. The issue made as prescribed, the right of trial by jury
accrues. The purpose of the rule is to preserve the court from
frivolous defences and to defeat attempts to use formal pleading
as means to delay the recovery of just demands.
Certainly a salutary purpose and hardly less essential to justice than the ultimate means of trial. And the case at bar
illustrates this. It certainly does not seem unreasonable to
charge one who has become responsible for the performance of
an act by another with knowledge of that act or with means of
ascertaimng it, so as to state a defence within the liberal interpretation of the rule declared by the Court of Appeals.
As early as 1879 the Supreme Court of the District recited
the history of the rule and explained its purpose. "It was a
rule," the court said, "to prevent vexatious details in the
maturing of a judgment where there is no defence.
Now, what does the rule mean, this being its office 9 It is
couched in very plain language. It says the defendant shall set
out his graunds of defence and swear to them. It does not
mean a defence in all its details of incident and fact, but the
foundation of defence. That is all. Those grounds ought not to
be vague and indefinite. They should have significance and
meaning, and should express the idea of defence upon the
ground to which they are addressed. It was never contemplated that this rule required a party ta follow his case through
all the lights and shadows of the evidence in it. That would
be to hold it essential that he should try his case in his plea."
Bank v Hitz, MacArthur & Mackey, 198.
This interpretation was affirmed in Croyley v F-ogeler, 2
App. D. C. 28; see also 2 App. D. 0. 340, Gleason v lfoee, 5
App. D. C. 1, 12 App. D. C. 161, Bailey v Dzstrzct of Columbia, 4 App. D. C. 356.
And the facts stated in the affidavit of defence will be accepted as true. Strauss v flensey, 7 App. D. ( 289.
It would seem a logical result of the argument of plaintiff.

FIDELITY & DEPOSIT CO. v.UNITED STATES.

321

Opinion of the Court.

in error that there was a constitutional right to old forms of
procedure, and yet it seems to be conceded that Congress has
power to change them, even to the enactment of rule 73. The
concession of that power destroys the argument based on the
Constitution, and whether Congress exercised the power directly or delegated it to the Supreme Court of the District
of Columbia can make no difference. And that such power
had been delegated to the Supreme Court of the District was
virtually decided in Smoot v Rittenhouse, supra.
3. It is urged that the causes of action set out in the declaration "are not within the purview of the rule." By "purview
of the rule" is meant, as counsel explains, the spirit 6f the rule,
and that, it is urged, intends only "money demand, pure and
simple," not contracts of suretyship or conditional obligations.
It is, however, conceded that the causes of action are within
the letter of the rule, and we. are not disposed to make exceptions based on disputable considerations of its spirit against
the interpretation of the court, which has adlminstered the rule
for many years.
4. Plaintiff in error asserts-the sufficiency of its affidavit and
asserts the insufficiency of that of defendant in error. In
support of the latter assertion, it is claimed, "copies of the
bonds in suit and of the contracts between the District and
Vinson should have been filed." We may adopt the reply of
the Court of Appeals of a like claim in that court. That
learned court said
"There is no merit in the formal- objections urged to the
declaration and supporting affidavit of the plaintiff. The bond
is alleged to have been executed in accordance with the formal
provisions of the statute which makes it a public record, and
proffer of it was not required to be made. It is nothing more
than a simple statutory obligation to pay any and all demands
against the contractor of the nature claimed by the plaintiff.
It does not appear that there was any formal written contract
between the contractor and the plaintiff relating to the materials furnished by the latter, upon the necessary interpretation
of which the liability in whole or in part depends. For the
purposes of recovery it was siifficient to say, as was done, that
VOL. OLXXXViI-21

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

plaintiff agreed to furnish certain materials at a certain price,
for use, by the contractor, that he did furnish the same in
specific amounts, and that the contractor received them and
then refused to pay the sum due for them."
The affidavit of plaintiff in error was not sufficient. The
rule requires the affidavit not only to deny. the right of the
plaintiff but to state also in precise and distinct terms the
grounds of defence, "which must be such as would, if true, be
sufficient to defeat the plaintiff's claim in whole or m part."
See cases cited above.
Finding no error in the record the
Judgment w fflrmed.

UNITED STATES v. MOSELEY
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 248. Argued October 2,

i902.-Decided December 1, 1902.

The Secretary of the Interstate Commerce Commission is entitled to be
reimbursed for telegrams sent by him pursuant to directions of the
Commission, on presenting vouchers in the form prescribed by law to
the proper auditing officer of the Treasury Department, approved bythe
chairman of the Commission and accompanied by the request of the
chairman that the rules of the Comptroller as to the production of
copies of telegrams for which credit is asked be disregarded on account
of the confidential character of the messages, the secretary having also
offered to submit the books of the Commission to the Comptroller and
Auditors of the Treasury.

THE case is stated in the opinion of the court.
Mr A8stant Attorney General Pradtfor appellants.

MRomes Conrad for appellee.
.Xr
MR. JusTIE MCKENNA

delivered the opinion of the court.

This was a petition in the Court of Claims to recover the

