OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Statement of the Case.

In these circumstances we must decline to entertain the
application.
3Iotion for certwraridenwed. Writ of ernor di&mmsed.

PAGE v. EDMUNDS.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR TE THIRD
CIRCUIT.
14o. 100. Argued Novw.dber 13, 1902.-Decided January 6, 103.
1. A seat or membership in the Philadelphia Stock Exchange belonging to
a person adjudicated a bankrupt is property which the bankrupt could
have transferred within the meaning of subdivision 5 of section 70 of the
bankruptcy act of 1898, and it therefore passes to the trustee in bankruptcy of the owner.
2. There is nothing in the bankruptcy act or the statutes of Pennsylvania,
as the latter have been construed by the highest courts of that State,
exempting such seat from sale by the trustee in bankruptcy.

THE appellant is a resident of Philadelphia, Pa., and has
been a member of the Philadelphia Stock Exchange in good
standing since the year 1880. On the 16th of November, 1899,
he was adjudged a voluntary bankrupt in the District Court
for the Eastern District of jPennsylvama, and the cause was
referred to Alfred Driver, Esq., referee in bankruptcy In the
schedules attached to his petition the appellant did not include
as an asset of his estate his membership in the stock exchange.
His trustee in bankruptcy caused the membership to be appraised, and petitioned- the referee for an order to sell the
same. The petition was heard before the referee, who, after
hearing, filed his report containing a summary as follows
"The said Page was adjudicated a bankrupt upon his own
petition on November 16, 1899. Upon his exanination he
stated that he is a member of the Philadelphia Stock Exchange, that he bought his seat in 1880, paying for it at that
time about $5500, that when a member wishes to dispose of

PAGE v. EDMUNDS.
Statement of the Case.

his seat he hunts up somebody who wants to buy and sells it
to him, that seats are always salable, that the last price paid
of which he heard was $8500, that he could sell his seat at
any time to any one who wanted to buy it, that the buyer
takes it with the understanding that he will be elected a member, otherwise it is no sale; that he could sell his seat without
the approval and concurrence of the other members, that he
did not include the seat as an asset in his schedules because
from his understanding of the matter he did not consider it an
asset, that in the event of Ins death there would be paid to
his wife $5000 out of the gratuity fund, and that she would
get said sum and the seat, that if he should sell the seat the
gratuity or insurance would go with the seat.
"The trustee upon -this evidence of the bankrupt caused the
seat in the stock exchange to be appraised, and the apraisers
have reported its value to be $8000.
"The secretary of the stock exchange testified that the
bankrupt had no unsettled contracts with or claims against
him by any member of the exchange. The Philadelphia Stock
Exchange is an unincorporated association. The constitution and by-laws were offered in evidence. The articles of
the constitution which relate to membership and the transfer
of membership are as follows
"Article 5.
"SEc. 4. A committee on admissions, consisting of five members, to which all applications for membership, transfer of
membership and readmissions of suspended mombers, shall be
referred. It shall be its duty to mquire.into the general standing of the applicant, and make a report thereon to the governing committee within one month of the presentation of the
application. Until the committee -makes a report favorable to
the admission of the applicant, he-shall not be voted for as a
member, unless upon the written application of'seven (7) members of the governing committee-to the president, made within
five (5) days after the committee's report has been presented,
in which case the governing committee may, by a two thirds
vote, reverse the report of the committee, and such reversal

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Statement of the Case.

shall have the same effect as if the committee's report had originally been favorable. If a report be favorable, the name of
the candidate shall be posted in the stock exchange, and notice
given that a ballot will be taken at the next stated meeting of the governing committee in order that every member of
the exchange may have an opportunity of objecting to the
candidate's election, such objection shall be in writing to the
president of the governing.committee.
"The election of candidates for membership shall be held by
the -governing committee, but no election shall be valid unless
at least eighteen (18) ballots be cast, and, if five (5) ballots be
cast against a candidate, he shall be declared not elected.
" Article 11.
"SEo. 1. The number of members shall be limited to two
hundred and thirty (230).
"SEC. 4. Any member wishing to sell his membership shall
have the right to do so, provided be has no unsettled contracts
with or claim against him by any member of the stock exchange,
for transactions arising in or relating to the business of banker
or a stock or exchange broker, but, where the arbitration committee shall determine that any claims or contracts exist, the
governing committee may, except in cases of insolvency, refuse
to permit the membership to be sold, until such claims or contracts are, in its opinion, satisfactorily settled.
"The proceeds of the membership, if sold, shall, after deducting all .barges due to the exchange, to be determined, in cases
of controversy, by the arbitration committee-belong to its
owner's creditors in the exchange, in proportion to the amount
of their respective claims, determined by the arbitration committee, as hereinbefore provided in section 5, article Y, and be
paid accordingly, and the remainder, if any, shall be paid to
the owner.
"SEC. 5. When a member dies, his membership shall, within
one year thereafter, be sold or transferred, if, however, he be
indebted to any member of the stock exchange, then, on the
written request of two thirds of the creditors in interest, said
membership shall be sold, at the discretion of the committee

PAGE r EDMUNDS.
Statement of the Case.

on admissions, and the proceeds thereof, after deducting all
charges due to the exchange, to be determined in-case of controversy by the arbitration committee, shall be paid to its owner's creditors who are members of the exchange, in proportion
to the amount of their respective claims, determined as hereinbefore provided in section 5, article V, as to disputes between
living members, and the remainder, if any, shall be paid to the
legal representative of the deceased.
"The membership of a deceased member shall be liable for
all dues and assessments winch may be made by the exchange
from the day of his death until such time his membership is.
transferred.
"Sc. 8. Menibership in the exchange shall, Tso facto, terminate m either of the following cases
"1. Fraud in any transaction arising out of the member's
business as a banker, or broker.
"2. Conviction, by a jury, of any infamous offence or felony
And the commission of the offence shall be ascertained in each
case, after notice and opportunity for hearing.by a vote of two
thirds present (being a majority of the whole number) of the
governing committee.
"3. Suspension -from the stock exchange for any cause, and
inability for one year thereafter to comply with the constitution, by-laws and rules as to eligibility for reinstatement.
"SEc. 9. Upon such termination of membership, the said
membership shall be sold, at the discretion of the governing
committee, and the proceeds, after deducting all charges due
the exchange and all debts due to creditors in the exchangewhich amounts shall' be determined by the arbitration committee-shall be paid to the expelled member, his heirs or assigns.
"Article 12.
"SEc. 6. Any member who shall be declared a bankrupt shall,
syso facto, be suspended from the stock exchange, but a suspended member, presenting a certificate of discharge under the
United States bankrupt law, becomes eligible under the rules
for reinstating suspended members.

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Counsel for Parties.

"SEC. 7. If any suspended member fails to settle with all his
creditors within six months from the time of his suspension, his
membership may be disposed of by the committee on admissions, and must be sold at the end of twelve months, and the
proceeds, after deducting all charges due to the exchange, to be
determined, in cases of controversy, by the arbitration committee-shall belongand be paid to his creditors in the exchange
in accordance with section 3.
"S1Eo. 11. The proceeds arising from the sale of the membership of an insolvent shall be divided _pro rata by the arbitration
committee among the creditors recorded, as in section 3, and if
any balance remain it.shall be paid over to the insolvent.
"1 The: by-laws contain no provision relating to membership
or transfer of membership."
As a conclusion from these facts and from the bankrupt law,
the referee on March 7, 1900, "-ordered that the trustee sell at
public auction the seat or membership of Edward D. Page, the
bankrtipt, and all his right and interest therein, subject to the
constitution and- by-laws of the Philadelphia Stock Exchange
regulating memberghip therein."
The appellant petitioned for a review of thQ referee's order
by the District Court, averring error in the order in that the
petitioner was advised and believed that his membership m
the Philadelphia Stock Exchange was not property within the
meamng of the-bankrupt act of- July 1, 1898, nor was it an
asset of his estate which -could be sold by his trustee m bankruptcy..
On June 19, 1900, the District Court approved the order of
sale made by the referee and directed it to be executed. The
ifatter was then taken for review to the Circuit Court of Appeals, which court, confirmed the order of the District Court.
This appeal Nas thereupon taken.

Mrl. Oeorge W. Jazbslfor appellant.
.M' Hen'y La Bhrre Jayne and .Up Henry R. EdZnwnd8 for
appellee.

PAGE v. EDMUNDS.
Opinion of the Court.

MB. JUSTICE MOKENNA, after making the foregoing statement,
delivered the opinion of the court.

The case presented by the record is a simple one and does
not call for elaborate discussion. Indeed, it has been virtually
ruled by this court. RHyd v Woode, 94 U. S. 523, 525, Sparhawk v Yrkes, 142 U. S. 1.
Section 70 of the bankrupt act of 1898 provides that the tfustee shall be vested with
"The title of the banxrupt, as of the date he was adjudged
a bankrupt, except in so far as it is property winch is exempt,
to all
"(3.) Powers which he might have exercised for his own
benefit,
"(5.) Property winch prior to the filing of the petition he
could by any means have transferred or which might have been
levied upon and sold under judicial process."
This section, and that which provides for exemptions of
property, constitute the elements to be considered.
Section 6 of the bankrupt act provides as follows
"This act shall not affect the allowance to bankrupts of the
exemptions which are prescribed by the state laws in force at
the time of the filing of the petition in the State wherein they
have had their domicile for the six months or the greater portion
thereof immediately preceding the filing of the petition."
1. Was the seat in the stock exchange property which could
have been by any means transferred or which might have been
levied upon and sold under judicial process 2 If the seat was
subject to either manner of disposition, it passed to the trustee
of the appellant's estate.
We think it could have been transferred within the meaning
of the statute. The appellant could have sold his membership,
the purchaser taking it subject to election by the exchange, and
some other conditions, It had decided value. The appellant
paid for it in 1880, $5500, and he testifiedthat the last price he
had heard paid for a seat was $8500. One or the other of these
sums, or, at any rate, some sum, was the value of the seat. It
was property and substantial property to the extent of'some

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opimpn of the Court.

amount, notwithstanding the contingencies to which it was subject. In other words, the buyer took the risk of the.contingencies.
And they seem to be capable of estimation. The appellant once
estimated them and paid $5500 for the seat in controversy,
another buyer estimated them and paid $8500 for a seat. A
thing having such vendible value-must be regarded as property,
and as. it could have been transferred by some means by appellant (one of the conditions expressed in section 70) it passed to
and vested in his trustee. Whether it was subject to levy and
sale by judicial process we need. not consider except incidentally
in discussing the next -contentiQn.
2. To sustain the claim of exemption under the state law, and
therefore under the bankrupt act, appellant relies upon the decisions of the Supreme Court of the State of Pennsylvania. If
those decisions are interpretations of the state statute, we must
yield to their authority If they are declarations of general law
-mere definitions of property-we may dispute their conclusions if their reasoning does not persuade.
Two cases are cited by appellant TAompson v. Adams, 93
Penn. St.55, and Pancoastv Gowen, 93 Penn. St. 66.
In Thompson v Adams the following facus were presented
(we quote from appellant's brief)
"Thompson, furmshed to Richards the money-with which to
,purchase a membership seat in the Philadelphia Stock Exchange.
IRichards subsequently died indebted to sundry members of the
exchange and his peat was sold by it under its rules, to satisfy
these claints, which were in excess of and exhausted the proceeds realized. Thompson sued Adams et al., trading as the
Philadelphia Stock Exchange, to recover the proceeds of the
seat in the treasurer's hands, claiming, to be the equitable owner
of the seat, as agamst the creditors of Richards m the exchange."
The entire opinion of the court .was as follows
"The constitution and articles of a voluntary association,
such as the Philadelphia board of brokers, are law as to the
members. The plaintiff below was not a member, but had furnished the money by which- Richards obtained a seat. His
contention is that he was the equitable owner of the seat, and

PAGE v. EDMUNDS.
Opinion of the Court.

had title to what was received for it, and that the defendant
had no right to apply the proceeds to debts due by Richards to
other members, in pursuance of the terms of the constitution
of the club. But why not" Richards was the member of the
board, the legal owner of the seat, and the plaintiff an entire
stranger, unknown to the association. The members give credit
to each other in part, no doubt, upon the faith of the liability
of a member's seat to them for-his debts. There is nothing unlawful or unreasonable in this regulation. The seat is not property in the eye o the law, it could not be seized in execution
for the debts of the members. It is the mere creation of the
board, and, of course, was to be held and enjoyed with all the
limitations and restrictions which the constitution of the board
chose to put upon it."
It is manifest that the court did not rest its decision upon the
exemption of the property under a statute of the State. It asserted simply the rights of the members of the club, under its
constitution, to be preferred in the payments of their claims.
It is true, the court said, "the seat is not property, in the eye
of the law, it could not be seized in execution for debts of
its members." Thislanguage is not very clear. Itisnotcertain
whether the learned court intended to say that the seat was not
property at all, or not property because it could not be seized
in execution for debts. If the former, we cannot concur. The
facts of this case demonstrate the contrary If the latter, it
does not affect the pending controversy The power of the appellant to transfer it was sufficient to vest'it in his trustee.
"The case of Pancoastv. Gowen," (we quote again from appellant:s brief,) involved "an attachment against the Philadelphia Stock Exchange, sought by a creditor of a member in good
standing, to compel the sale of his seat in satisfaction of a judgment debt, which was refused on appeal to the Supreme Court,
after an exhaustive examination by the court of the exchange
rules." The opinion was as follows
"A seat in. the board of brokers is not property subject to
execution in any form. It is a mere personal privilege, perhaps
more accurately, a license to buy and sell at the meeting of
the board. It certainly could not be levied on and sold under

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opimon of the Court.

aft. fa.

The sheriff's vendee would' acquire no title which he
could enforce, nor is it within either the words or the spirit of
the act of June 16, 1836, sec. 35, Pamph. L.167, providing for
attachment on judgment. Whether the proceeds of the sale
of the seat in the hands of thetreasurer of the board, and payable to the defendant, according to the regulations and by-laws
of. the board, could be thus reached is an entirely different question. This, and no more, is what we understand to have been
decided by the Supreme Court of the United States, in Hyde
v. Woods, 4 Otto, 525, where Mr. Justice Iiller says, I If there
had been left in the hands of the defendants any balance after
paying the debts due to the members of the board, that balance
miight have been recQvered by the assignee, in bankruptcy"
There is an absence in the latter case, as there was in the
other, of any purpose to construe a statute, and the test of property is the same as in the other case-liability to be levied upon
and sold under aft.fa. An attempt to enforce such a levy and
sale was made in both actions to the exclusion 6f the rights of
other members'of the association. The attempt was properly
defeated.- Undoubtedly the seat in the board "was to be held
and enjoyed with all the limitations and. restrictions which the
constitution of the board chooses to put upon it."
We expressed that 'limitation in Hyde v Woods, 94' U. S.
525, but we decided nevertheless that a seat was property, and
that if upon its sale any balance was left after paying the debts
due to the members of the board, that balance could be recovered
by the assignee in bankruptcy This was not denied by the
Supreme Court of Pennsylvania, and it may be that the court
only intended to declare the priority of board creditors over
general creditors. If so, the decision expresses no rule with
which we need take issue or which is relevant to the pending
controversy Nor indeed if the case may be construed more
broadly The bankrupt act of 1898 has made its own rule.
For the same reason it is not necessary to review the cases cited
from other jurisdictions. Whatever is in them favorable to
appellant's contention was based upon the- inability that the
respective courts found in the law to transfer a title which
could be insisted upon and enjoyed against the consent of the

PAGE v. EDMUNDS.
Opinion of the Court.

association. But that consequence, in our judgment, affects the
value of -a seat in a stock board, not its existence as property
The contingencies which may defeat or affect its title, or its
enjoyment will be reflected in its price, and if, notwithstanding
them, a seat has a vendible value of from $5000 to $8000, it
would seem that the law should have some process to reach it
for the benefit of creditors. And the bankrupt act supplies
the process. The trustee of a bankrupt's estate is the bankrupt's assignee, and we only repeat the statute when we say
that the trustee is vested with whatever the bankrupt can convey And the statute is something more than another mode
of transferring property zn nvigum.

It is a gift of privileges

and expresses the conditons7 upon which they are conferred.
To establish the exemption of the seat under the state law
counsel quotes the provisions of the local insolvent law of
June 16, 1836, P L. 729, as follows
"That every insolvent shall be entitled to retain all such articles as may by law be exempted from levy and sale, upon execution." (See. 35, par. 5.)
"Every such debtor shall be entitled, notwithstanding his assignment, in conformity with this act, to retain for the use of
himself and his family all such articles as are or may be by law
exempted from levy or sale on any executmon, or from distress
for rent, and the property in such articles, shall not pass to his
trustees." (See. 38.)
It is argued that the Supreme Court of the State, having decided that a seat in the stock board is not subject to levy and
sale under execution, it becomes under those provisions property exempt from debts under the state law, and exempt therefore under section 6 of the national bankrupt act.
But there is nothing in the opinion of the court winch intimates an intention to construe the statute of 1836 or that the
decismon would give to the statute the effect asserted. If such
had been the intention no question would have been reserved
or mentioned of the right of general creditors to resort to the
proceeds of the sale of a seat after board creditors should be
paid. Not only the seat but- the proceeds of its sale would be
exempt.

' 606

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opimod of the Court.

Another answer is urged ta the contention. By the act of
April 9, 1849, P L 533, sec. I, it is. enacted "In lieu of the
property now exempt by law from levy and sale on execution,
issued upon any judgment obtained upon contract and distress
for rent, property to the value of three hundred dollars, exclusive of all wearing apparel of the defendant and his family, and
all bibles and school books in use ii the family, (which shall remain exemptedl as heretofore,) and no more, owned by or in possession of any debtor, shall be exempt from levy and sale on
execution or by distress for rent."
Judgment aff rmed.

OTIS v. PARKER.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIANo. 4. Argued December 11, 12, 1902.-Deiided January 5, 1903.

The provision in article IV, section 26 of the constitutioli of Califorma
providing that "all contracts for the sales of shares of the capital stock
of any corporation or association, on margin, or to be delivered at a future day, shall be void, and any money paid on such contracts may be
recovered by the .party~paying it by suit in any court of competent 3urisdiction," is not contrary to the first section of the Fourte6nth Amend,ment of the Constitution of the United States, so far as it relates to sales
on margns.

THE case is stated in the opinion of the court.

.M

Edmund

._H Joseph Hutchnson for defendant int error.

ff' John

Mr John G Johnson for plaintiffs in error.
Tauszky was with him on the brief.

H.3jler was with him on the brief.
MR.

JUsTIcE

HOLMEs delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an action in three counts, for money had and"received,

