OCTOB8I1TER I, 1902.
-Statement of the Case.

BURT v. UNION CENTRAL LIFE INSURANCE
COMPANY
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE FIFTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 70. Argued November 6, 1902.-Decided December 22,1902.
As public policy forbids the insertion in a contract of a condition which
would tend to induce crime, it also forbids the enforcement of a contract
under circunstances which cannot be lawfully stipulated for.
Where a man, who has commited murder, thereafter assigns a policy of
insurance on his own life payable to his estate and is subsequently convicted and executed for the crime, the beneficiaries cannot recover on
the polidy. The crime of the assured is not one of the risks covered by
a policy of insurance, and there isan implied obligation on his part to do
nothing to wrongfully accelerate the maturity of the policy.
It is the policy of every State to uphold the dignity and integrity of its
courts of justice and as contracts insuring against miscarriage of justice
would encourage litigation and bring reproach upon the State, its judiciary and executive, they would be against public policy and void; and
therefore an action cannot be maintained by the beneficiaries of an insurance' policy on the life of a man executed for murder on the ground
that his conviction and execution were unjust.

THIS was an action, to recover on a policy of life insurance,
commenced in the District Court of Travis County, Texas, and
removed to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Western District of Texas. The policy was issued August 1,
1894. William E. Burt was the insured. The policy, in case
of death, was payable to Anna M. Burt, the wife of the insured,
if living, otherwise to his executors, admimstrators or assigns.
On September 10, 1895, the beneficiary Anna M. Burt and her
husband, the insured, assigned a one half interest to plaintiffs
to secure them as creditors of the assignors. On July 24, 1896,
the beneficiary, Anna M. Burt, died intestate, as did also the
only children of the beneficiary and the insured. On February 4, 1897, the insured, William E. Burt, conveyed to the
plaintiffs the remaining interest in the policy, making them the
sole owners of it. They are also -his sole heirs, and as such are

BURT v. UNION CENTRAL LIFE INSURANCE 00. 368
Opmon of the Court.

entitled to the -full benefit of the policy, there being no admmistration on his estate nor any necessity for one.
On November 27, 1896, -the insured, having been indicted
for the murder of his wife, Anna M. Burt, the beneficiary, was
tried and convicted in the District Court of Travis 'County,
Texas, a court of competent jurisdiction, was sentenced to be
put to deith, and on Mvay 27,1898, was hanged pursuant to such
sentence. The petition in this case alleged that, notwithstanding such conviction, sentence and execution, the insured, William E. Burt, did not in fact commit the crime of murder, nor
participate therein, but that ifhe did the policy was not avoided
thereby, because he was at the time insane.
The policy, which in its general scope was an ordinary policy of life insurance, contained these provisions
"Third. If the insured should, without the written consent
of the company, at any time enter the military or naval service,
the militia excepted, or become employed in a liquor saloon, or
if the insured should die by self-destruction, whether sane or
insane, within three years from date hereof, this policy shall
be null and void.
"The contract of insurance between the parties hereto is completely set forth in this policy and the application for the same."
A demurrer to the petition was sustained and judgment entered for the defendant, which was thereafter affirmed by the
Court of Appeals of the Fifth Circuit, 105 Fed. Rep. 419, and
thereupon the case was brought here on certiorari. 181 U. S.
617.
M-' Gardner Raggles for petitioners.
..r Robert Ramsey for respondent.
MRt.

JUSTio. BREWER, after making the foregoing statement,

court.
delivered the opinion of the

There is nothing in the policy which in terms covers the contingency here presented, the extracts therefrom given in the

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opimon of the Court.

preceding statement being all that even remotely by suggestion
or inference can have any bearing. The question therefore is
whether an ordinary life policy, containing no applicable special
provisions, is a binding contract to insure against a legal execution for crime. The petitioners would distinguish between
cases in which the insured is justly-convicted and executed and
those in which he is unjustly convicted. The allegation here is
that, notwithstanding his conviction and execution, he was not
in fact guilty, that he did not participate in the killing of his
wife, and that if he did he was insane at the time, and therefore not responsible for his actions.
Accepting the division made by counsel as one facilitating a
just conclusion concerning the rights of the parties hereto, we
inquire, first, whether a policy of life insurance is a contract,
binding the insurer to pay to the beneficiary the amount of the
policy in case the insured is legally and justly executed for
crime. In other words, do insurance policies insure against
crime? Is that a risk which enters into and becomes a part of
the contract?
The researches of counsel have found but one case directly
in point, The Amiacable Socety v Bollnd, decided by the House
of Lords in 1830, and reported in 4 Bligh N. S. 191, 211. The
Lord Chancellor, delivering the opinion, after stating the question, answered it in the following..brief but cogent words:
"It appears to me that this resolves itself into a very plain
and simple consideration. Suppose that in the policy itself this
risk had been insured against that is, that the party insuring
had agreed to pay a sum of money year by year, upon condition, that in the event of his committing a capital felony, and
being tried, convicted, and executed for that felony, his assignee8 shall receive a certain sum of moneyw-is it possible that such
a contract could be sustained2 Is it not void upon the plainest
principles of public policy 2 Would not such a contract (if
available) take away one of those restraints operating on the
minds of men against the commission of crimes-namely, the
interest we have in the welfare and prosperity of our connexions 2 Now, if a policy of that description, with such a form
of condition inserted in it in express terms, cannot, on grounds

BURT v. UNION CENTRAL LIFE INSURANCE CO. 365
Opinion of the Court.

of public policy, be sustained, how is it to be contended that in
a policy expressed in.such terms as the present, and after the
events which have happened, that we 'can sustain such a claim 2
Can we, in considering this policy, give to it the effect of that
insertion, which if expressed in terms would have rendered the
policy, as far as that condition went at least, altogether void?"
There are some differences between that case and the present
in the surrounding facts, but none that are material. There
the policy was taken out for the benefit of the insured's estate.
Here the beneficiary was the wife of the insured, or, if she
should not be living at the time of his death, his estate. As
her death preceded his, the conditions of the insurance became
practically the same. In that case the insured had assigned
all his interest in the policies upon certain trusts, though the
plaintiffs were his assignees in bankruptcy Here he and his
wife, the original beneficiary, transferred a half interest to these
plaintiffs, who were their creditors, but the amount of the indebtedness is not shown, and the policy provided "should this
policy be assigned or held as security, a duplicate of said assignment must be filed with the company, and due proofs of
interest produced with proofs of death. This company does
not guarantee the validity of any assignment," a requirement.
which does not appear to have been complied with. So that
the rights of the plaintiffs depend mainly if not wholly upon
the fact of the assignment made by the insured after the killing of his wife and prior to his execution, and the further fact
that they are his sole heirs. The plaintiffs therefore in each of
the cases claimed directly under the insured and sought to recover on a policy obtained by him, the maturity of which was
accelerated by his execution for crime. In neither policy was
there any express stipulation in respect to such a contingency,
so that the reasoning of the Lord Chancellor is pertinent to
this case, and it is reasoning the force of which it is impossible
to avoid. It cannot be that one of the risks covered by a contract of insurance is the crime of the -insured. There is an
implied obligation on his part to do nothing to wrongfully
accelerate the maturity of the policy Public policy forbids
the insertion in a contract of a condition which.would tend to

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opnon of the Court.

induce crime, and as it forbids the introduction of such a stipulation it also forbids the enforcement of a contract under circumstances which cannot be lawfully stipulated for.
That case was cited with approval in Ritter v Xvtual Life
Insurance Company, 169 U S. 139, in which we held that a life
insurance policy taken out by the insured for the benefit of his
estate was avoided when he in sound mind intentionally took
his own life-and this irrespective of the question whether there
was a stipulation in the policy to that effect or not. In the
opinion other cases were cited bearing more or less directly on
the general question. Among them was New Yo'k Mutual Life
bnsurance Company v Annstrong, 117 U. S. 591,600, an action
by the assignee of a life insurance policy, and the defence that
the assignee murdered the insured in order to get the benefit of
the policy, in respect to which Mr. Justice Field, speaking for
the court, said
"It would be a reproach to the jurisprudence of the country,
if one could recover insurance money payable on the death of
a.party whose life he bad feloniously taken. As well might
he recover insurance money upon a building that he had wilfully fired."
Also Hatch v .utual Life Insurance Company, 120 Massachusetts, 550, 552, an action on a policy of insurance on the
life of a married woman whose death was caused by a miscarriage produced by illegal operation performed upon and voluntarily submitted to by her with an intent to cause an abortion,
and without any justifiable medical reason for such an operation, from the opinion in which these words were quoted
"We can have no question that a contract to insure a woman
against the risk of her dying under or in consequence of an
illegal operation for abortion would be contrary to public policy,
and could not be enforced in the courts of this Commonwealth."
Also Saipreme Commandery &c. v Awunworth, 71 Alabama,
436, 446, a case of the suicide of the insured, in which is this
language
"Death, the risk of life insurance, the event upon which the
insurance money is payable, is certain of occurrence, the uncertainty of the time of its occurrence is the material element and

BUIRT v. UNION CENTRAL LIFE INSURANCE CO. 367
Opinion of the Court.

consideration of the contract. It cannot be in the contemplation of the parties, that the assured, by his own criminal act,
shall deprive the contract of its material element, shall vary
and enlarge the risk, and hasten the day of payment of the insurance money
The fair and just interpretation of a
contract of life insurance, made with the assured, is, that the
risk is of death proceeding from other causes than the volun
tary act of the assured, producing or intended to produce it,
The extinction of life' by disease, or by accident, not
suicide, voluntary and intentional, by the assured, while in his
senses, is the risk intended, and it is not intended that, without
the hazard of loss, the assured may safely commit crime."
But the stress 6f the plaintiffs' contention rests on the allegation that the insured was unjustly convicted and executed,
that he did not in fact commit the erlme of murder or participate therein, and that if he did it was while he was insane and
not responsible for his actions. It is urged that according to
the authorities heretofore cited the risk which is not insured
against is death as a punishment for crime, that if there b6 no
crime, no wrong done by the insured, the mere fact of his death
as the outcome of proceedings in a court of justice does not,
vitiate the contract of insurance unless there is some express
stipulation therefor. It is said that the adjudication in the
criminal case is not as to these plaintiffs conclusive of the insured's guilt, that they may show in this independent action
facts which would satisfy a jury that the outcome of those legal
proceedings was unjust because the insured did not participate
in the crime, or if he did that he was legally irresponsible
therefor by reason of insanity It is not doubted that the
criminal prosecution was an adjudication of the insured's guilt,
his sanity and legal responsibility for the crime, but the principle of re8 judizta is that a judgment is conclusive only as
between the parties and their privies, and these plaintiffs say
they were not parties to the criminal action and are not privies
to either party thereto.
If the case turned on the applicability of the principle of r'e
jvdcata there would be little difficulty in reaching a conclusion. There is no identity of parties, nor are the two parties to

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

this action privies to those in the criminal proceeding. A judgment in a criminal prosecution for assault and battery cannot
be invoked as tesjudicatain a civil action by the party injured
to recover damages. But there the two actions run along parallel lines, and the relief sought in each is the direct and natural result of the wrong complained of. Here, the civil action
is founded upon the result of the other-cannot be maintained
but for the fact of that result. If the insured had been acquit.ted there would have been no cause of action on the policy,
while the fact that the defendant in the illustration given was
acquitted of the criminal offence would not bar the civil action
to recover damages. Cottinghni v. Weeks, 54 Georgia, 275.
This action can be maintained only on the assumption that
there was a failure of justice in the criminal case. It implies a
miscarriage of justice. But can there -be a contract of insurIn the opinion of the
ance against the miscarriage of justice
Cburt of Appeals the question is thus stated and answered
"Can there be a legal life insurance against the miscarriage
of justice 2 Can contracts be based on the probability of judicial murder 2 If one policy so written be valid, the business of
insuring against the fatal mistakes of juries and courts would
be legitimate. The same principle could be applied, in a kind
of accident insurance, to the miscarriage of justicer in cases that
led to convictions and punishments not capital. And in each
suit to enforce such a-policy the issue as to the fatal judicial
mistake would be tried by another jury and court, not infallible.
"It is the policy of evezy State or organized society to uphold the dignity and integrity of its courts of justice. Such
contracts would be speculations upon whether the courts would
do justice. £hey would tend to encourage a want of confidence in the efficiency of the courts. They would tend to stir
up litigation-litigation that would reopen tried issues. They
would impress the public with the belief that the results of
trials of the gravest kind were so uncertain that the innocent
could not escape condemnation by a jury and unjust judgment
by the court, or obtain pardon of the executive. Such contracts would encourage litigation and bring reproach upon the

BURr v. UNION CENTRAL LIFE INSURANCE CO. 369
Opinion of the Court.

State, its judiciary and executive, and would, we think, be
against public policy and void. The policy of the law often
permits and even requires, for error, a new trial of a convicted
defendant, but never after his execution."
The views thus expressed commend themselves to our judg'ment. There is a wagering feature in such a stipulation which
forbids. its being incorporated into a policy of insurance, and.if
it cannot be formally incorporated into the contract its omis.sion therefrom does not by implication give it life and validity
See to what any other conclusion would lead
Suppose
beneficiaries at the time of the trial of an insured for murder
were possessors, and the sole possessors, of a knowledge of facts
that would establish Ins innocence. As good citizens it would
be their duty to furnish that evidence and thus prevent a miscarriage of justice. As beneficiaries it would be their interest
to withhold their evidence and thus 'let an innocent man be
punished. Can a contract be upheld which is not only a wager
upon the result of criminal proceedings but also tends to place
before individuals an inducement to assist in bringing about
such miscarriage of. justice 2
In Eva=z v. Jones, 5 Mees. & W 77, an action was brought
on a wager as to the conviction or acquittal of a prisoner on
trial on a criminal charge, and it was held that the action could
not be sustained. Lord Abinger observed. "No man has a
right to acquire by his own act an interest in interfering with
the proceedings of courts of justice, more especially of criminal
justice, in which a man is bound honestly to declare all he
knows relative to the case in the course of adjudication. Here
the party had acquired by the wager a direct interest in procuring the conviction of the prisoner, and although it is impossible to say in what precise manner an improper bias may be
exerted, or whether it will have any effect or not, yet the very
tendency of his mind to act in such a way as to pervert the
course of justice, is a sufficient foundation for the illegality of
such wagers." (p. 81.) Baron Parke concurred in these words
"I entirely agree. No case- has been cited at variance with
the principle laid down by the Lord Chief Baron. It appears
to me that it is a reasonable objection to the legality of a
VOL. CLXXXVII-2A

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opimon of the Court,

wager, that it has a tendency to influence and pervert the
course of criminal justice. There ought to be a disposition in
every person to come forward and give any evidence which he
may be in possession of,.tending to insure either the acquittal
or conviction of a person lying under a criminal charge; but
the necessary tendency of a wager of this description is to induce the party to it either to give false testimony, if it be his
interest to procure a conviction, or, if the other way, to with.draw from the court evidence which he may either possess at
the time of laying the wager, or which may afterwards come
to his knowledge. And even if a party be not in a situation to
suppress or fabricate evidence, still he may influence the result
of the tr1il by prejudicing the public mind on the case, and
thus deprive the party charged of the fair trial to which he is
entitled." (p. 82.)
It may be said the plaintiffs have made no contract m which
any element of wager exists. The contract was between the
insured and the company, and in that there was no other element
of wager than is found in any ordinary insurance policy This
may be technically true. The plaintiffs made no contract, but
they are seeking to enforce one containing, so .far as they are
concerpned, all the elements which, as indicated in the quotations
just made, forbid its, enforcement on the ground of public
policy They claim in part, under an assignment made before
the homicide, the value of which, however, they do not disclose, and they were the heirs of the insured, and after the
death of his wife and children, ,would, in the absence of any
will, become the beneficiaries in full. So they stood prior to
the trial, with a personal interest drawing them m one direction
and a public duty which might possibly compel active efforts
m a contrary direction. That these plaintiffs may have known
nothimg in respect to the circumstances of the homicide, or
been unable to furnish any evidencepro or eon on the matter
of insanity, is immaterial It is enough that the contract has
such a tendency, and 'it is not essential that, in fact, it produced a conflict in the minds of these plaintiffs or changed
their conduct.
The judgment. of the Oourt of Appeals is
-Afmned.

