TURPIN

i.

LEON.

Statement of the Case.

TURPIN v. LEMON.
APPEAL FROM THE

OIRCUrr COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF WEST VIRGINIA.

No. 35. -Argued Miarch 17, 1902.-Decided November 3, 1902.

The statutes of West Virginia raregard to the sale of land for unpaid taxes
require certain proceedings to be taken by the sheriff, but do not require
the sheriff to show in his return that lie has complied with these requirements; the statutes also make the deed given by the sheriff prunafacie
evidence that the material facts therein recited are true. Held that the
effect of these statites is to change the burden of proof which rested at
common law upon the purchaser at a tax sale to show the regularity of
all proceedings prior to the deed- and to cast it upon the party who contests the sale.
Exactly what due process of law requires in the assessment and collection
of general taxes has never yet been decided by this court; while it has
been held that notice must be given to the owner at some stage of proceedings for condemnation or imposition of special taxes, it has also been
held that laws for assessment and collection of general taxes stand upon
a somewhat different footing and are construed with the utmost liberality, sometimes even to the extent of holding that no notice whatever is'
necessary (Mr. Justice Field's definition of "due process of law" in
Hager v. ReclarnationDistrict, Ill'U. S. 701, followed), and the Fourteenth Amendment is satisfied by showing that the usual course prescribed by the state laws requires notice to the taxpayers and is in conformity with natural justice.
A plaintiff is bound to show that he has personally suffered an injury by
the application of a'law before he can institute a bill for relief to test its
constitutionality.

Tnis was an appeal from a decree of. the Circuit Court for
the District of West Virginia sustaimng a demurrer to, and disinissing,, a bill filed for the purpose of impeaching a tax sale
and deed of certain lands, and of obtaining a judicial declaration
that the defendants, who were purchasers under such tax deed,
took no title to or interest in such lands.
The facts set forth m the bill were substantially as follows.On April 30, 1874, Turpin, a citizen of the State of Pennsylvama, purchased from the executors of one Smith C. Hill 225
acres of land in the county of Ritchie, West Virgmia,. and re-

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

ceived a deed therefor. In the year 1879,100 acres of this land
were sold for delinquent taxes for prior years, by which the
quantity owned by Turpin was diminished to 125 acres, which
were assessed to him for taxes for the years 1883 and 1884.
Being absent from the State for several years, in poor health
and unfit for business, he paid no attention to the land, which
was returned delinquent for the non-payment of these taxes,
and was sold by the sheriff of Ritchie County for such taxes on
January 12, 1886. Having failed to redeem the land within
the year allowed by law from the time of the sale, on February 3,
1887, some weeks after the expiration of the year, a deed was
made by the clerk of the county court of Ritchie County to the
defendants.
Nothing was done and no effort was made to pay these taxes
until about February 21, 1899, when Turpm met the defendant,
John B. Lemon, and tendered him the sum of one hundred and
seventy-six dollars and fifty cents, to cover the amount of the
taxes paid by the defendants in the purchase of the land, and
all taxes paid by them subsequently, as well as the cost of all
surveys,.etc., which amount he now offers .to pay into court,
but Lemon refused to receive the money, and has since cut large
quantities of timber and removed the same from the land.
Whereupon -he filed this bill, -which really raises but a single
question, and that is, whether the laws of the State of West
Virginia, enacted with reference to the sale of delinquent lands
for taxes, aie contrary to the Constitution of the United States,
or constitute due process of law within the Fourteenth Amendment. Other questions were raised in the bill, but in his petition for an appeal to this court the appellant rests his case upon
the single question of the constitutionality of these laws.

~.

Alr C. D AXermk for appellant.
X2, John G NeCluer for appellees.
MR. JusTIcE BROWN, after making the foregoing statement,

delivered the opinion of the court.
The general charge is made by the appellant m his assign-

TURPIN v. LEMON.
Opinon-of the Court.

ments of error that the tax sale complained of in the bill, as
well as the statutes of West Virginia, are obnoxious to the
Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution in failing to provide
due process of law or the equal protection of the laws.
The particular errors which are alleged in the bill to mvalidate the sale in question areThat it nowhere appeared in the return of the sale made by
the sheriff for these taxes, either (1) that the land had been certified to him as delinquent by the auditor of the State as required by law, or (2) that ,he published or posted the notice of
the sale as required by law, or (3) that said sale was made at a
time at which he would be authorized by law to make such
sale, or (4) that such sale was at a place, to wit, at the front
door of the.courthouse, at which thd sheriff was authorized -to
make it, or (5) ihat such sale was made at public auction, or(6) that such land was sold to a person or persons who would
take the least number of acres and pay the taxes thereon, or
(7) that stich sale was made in accordance with. the( provisions
of the law of the State.
In making sales of land for unpaid taxes the procedure indicated by the above exceptions is undoubtedly required by the
statute, the provisions of which are so numerous that they do
not require citation. It will be observed, however, that there
is no allegation in the bill that such requirements were not actually followed, but simply that the return of the sale failed to
set forth a compliance with them. It is true the bill avers that
the statenents in the tax deed of a compliance with the law,
"as the r'ecord evidence show8, were without foundation in fact."
This, however, is but a restatement of the proposition theretofore stated more particularly, that the return did not show that
the successive steps laid down by the statute were. followed.
That the pleader did not intend thereby to charge that the statutory procedure was not actually pursued is evident from the
plaintiff's brief, that, "while the proceeding may have been
condu6ted under this statute, yet the system provided is arbitrary and uncertain in its character," etc. As the statute does
not require the iheriff 'to show in his return of sale that he has
complied with these requirements, or any of them, or even to

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

state in general terms that the sale was made in accordance with
the statutes, the plaintiff failg to show that he has suffered any
actual injury, or that the forms of law were not literally observed.
The act of 18S2, ch. 130, sees. 12 and 13, specially provides
a form of return of the sale as follows
"12. The sheriff or collector who made the sale, shall forthwith make out a list of sales so made, with a caption thereto
in form or effect as 'follows 'List of real estate sold in the
in the month (or months, as the case may be),
county of, for the non-payment of the taxes charged
of----L-eighteenthereon, in the said county, for the year (or years, as the case
' Underneath shall be the several
may be), eighteen
columns mentioned in the tenth 'section of this chapter, with
a like caption to each column.
"13. There shall be appended to such list an affidavit in
sheriff (or collector
form or effectas follows 'I, A-B-,
or deputy for 0- D-, sheriff or collector), of the county
, do swear that the above list contains a true account
ofof all the real estate within my county which has been sold by
me- during the present year, for the non-payment of taxes
and that I- am not directly or inthereon for the year-,
directly interested in the purchase of any of said real estate.
So help me God.' Which oath shall be subscribed and taken
before some person authorized to administer oaths."
By section 15 of the same chapter "the owner of any real
estate so sold, his heirs or assigns, or any person having a iight
to charge such real estate for a debt, may redeem the same by
paying to the purchaser, his heirs or assigns, within one year
from the sale thereof, the amount specified in the receipt mentioned in the tenth section of this chapter, and such additional
taxes thereon as may have been paid by the purchaser, his
heirs or assigns, with interest on said purchase money, and
taxes, at the rate of twelve per centurn per annum from tile
tine the same may-have been so paid." No attempt was made
by the plaintiff to comply with this statute.
By section 19 of the same chapter it is provided that after
the expiration of the year the purchaser may obtain from the

TURPIN v. LEMON.
Opinion of the Court.

clerk of the county court of the county in which said salt was.
made a deed of conveyance for the land, and by section 25,
when the purchaser shall have obtained a deed thereof, "and
such right,
caused the same to be admitted to record,
title and interest in and to said real estate, as was vested in the
person or persons charged with the taxes thereon for which it
shall be transferred to and vested in the
was sold,
grantee in such deed, notwithstanding any irregularity in the
proceedings under which the same was sold, not herein provided for, unless such irregularity appear on the face of such
proceedings of record in the office of the clerk of the county
court, and be such as materially to prejudice and mislead the
owner of the real estate so sold,- as to what portion of his real
estate was so sold, and when and for what year or years it was
sold, or the name of the purchaser thereof, and not then, unless it be clearly proved to the court or jury trying the case,
.that but for such irregularity the former owner of such real
estate would have redeemed the same under the provisions of
this chapter." This same section further declares in a subsequent clause that "no irregularity, error or mistake in the delinquent list or the return thereof, or in the affidavit thereto,
or in the list of sales filed with the clerk of the county court,
or in the affidavit thereto, or in the recordation of such list or
affidavit, or as to the manner, of laying off any real estate so
sold, or in the plat, description, or report thereof made by the
surveyor or other person, shall, after the deed is made, invalidate or affect the sale or deed."
The substance of this legislation, then, is this that a certain
procedure is prescribed for the sheriff, in making sales of land
for unpaid taxes, but it is not required -thathe incorporate the
various steps of such procedure in his report of sales-merely
that he shall swear that the list of lands to which his affidavit
is appended contains a true account of all the real estate within
the county sold by him during the current year for the nonpayment of taxes, and that he is not directly or indirectly interested in thepurchase of any such real estate. A year is then
allowed for redemption, after the expiration of which, a deed
of the land is executed to the purchaser at the sheriff's sale by

OTOB9IR TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

the clerk of the county court, which deed, the statute provides,
shall not be, invalidated by reason of any irregularity in the
probeedings under which the land was sold, unless such irregui
larities appear upon the face of such proceedings of record in
the office of the clerk, and be such as to materially prejudice
and niislead~the owner.
Counsel for the plaintiff criticises this legislation, and particularly section 25, upon the ground that it does not provide
for any record of the guccessive steps of procedure in advertising
and-selling lands for the non-payment of taxes, and yet declares
thatthe title to the land shall be vested in the purchaser, notwithstanding any irregularity, unless such irregularity appears
upon the face of the proceedings. The inference is that there
is no.irregularity which can vitiate the sale. This is not entirely acdurate. It is true that the statute prescribes a general
form of return by the sheriff, which does not set forth in detail
he'-proceedings prior to and: at the sale, but that there are
irregularities whichappear of record, and therefore that the
exceptiowin the curative statute is not without force, is evident
from the case, of _McCallister v. Cotlyille, 24 W Va. 173, in
which it was held fo be the official duty of the, clerk of the
county court to note in his office the day on which the sheriff
returned his list of the sales of lands sold for delinquent taxes,
and, if he fails,t make such note, or his office' shows that such
list was not returned and filed for more than ten days after the
completion of such sales, this, in either case, is such an omission
and irregularity as to materially prejudice the rights of the
owner of lands sold at such sale, anad therefore vitiates any deed
made tothe purchaser by the clerk. The court vent further in
this case, and held that parol evidence could not be introduced
to affect the validity or invalidity of a tax deed. So, too, in
Cw-rell v .Mitohell, 37 W Va. 130, 136, it was said the fact
that land was advertised and sold as delinquent iruder a description in the advertisement, locating it in a different district from
-that in which the 'land was situated,, was such an irregularity
as would void the xeed made in pursuance of such sale. In
_ays v Meatherly, 36 W Va. 613, the title obtained by'a purchaser was held to be defective for the reason that the affidavit

TURPIN v. LEHON.
Opinion of the Court.

did not comply with the form contained in the statute. In
that case the deed had not been obtained, but in P7il4s v.
.finear, 40 W Va. 58, the same defect was held to be fatal
after the deed was obtained and after the curative section (25)
had taken effect. -See also Jackson v. Kittle, 34 W Va. 207,
Baxter v Wade, 39 W Va. 281.
That it is competent for the legislature to provide by curative
statutes that irregularities'in the sales of lands shall not prejudice the purchaser after a certain time has elapsed, and a deed
has been given, is entirely clear, although as observed by Judge
Cooley in his work upon -Taxation, chapter 10, such defective
proceedings cannot be cured where there is a lack of jurisdiction to take them. "Curative laws'may heal irregularities in
action, but they cannot cure want of authority to act at all,"
and that "whatever the legislature could not have authorized
originally it cannot confirm." It may not be altogether easy
in a particular case to determine whether the defect bp jurisdictional or not, but certainly irregularities in the personal conduct
of the officer makino the sale would not be so regarded, and
it is at least exceedingly doubtful whether the failure'to preserve the auditor's list of delinquent lands or the evidence of the
publication and posting of the statutory notices would vitiate a
deed made by-the clerk, after a lapse of twelve years.
But, even if parol or other evidence were con-petent to impeach this sale, none such was offered, and it may well be
doubted whether due process of law, within the meaning of the
Fourteenth Amendment, requires a punctilious conformity with
'the statutory procedure preceding and accompanying the sale.
Whether all the steps required by law were actually taken in a
particular case, and whether the failure to take such steps would
invalidate the sale, would seem to be a matter for, the state
courts, rather than for thiu. court, to decide, and it would appear
that the Fourteenth Amendment would be satisfied byshowing
that the usual course prescribed by the state lawrs required
notice to the taxpayer and was in conformity with natural
justice. Exactly what due process of law requires in the assessment and collection of general taxes has never yet been decided
by this court, although we have had frequent occasion to hold

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinionof the Court.

that, in proceedings for the condemnation of land under the
laws of eminent domain, or for the imposition of special taxes
for local improvements, notice to the owner at some stage of
the proceedings, as well as an opportunity to defend, is essential.
SPencer v ilerohant, 125 U S. 345, fluling v -Yaw Valley
Railway, 130 U S. 559, ]Jagai v Reclamation .Dstu'wt,111
U S. 701, Pavlsen v Portland,149 U. S. 30. But laws for
-the assessment and collection of general taxes stand upon a
somewhat different footing and are construed with the utmost
liberality, sometimes even to the extent of .holding that no notice
whatever is necessary Due process of law was well defined by
Mr. Justice Field in Hagar v Reclamation Distrct, 111 U. S.
i n01,
the following words "It is sufficient to observe here,
that by ' due process' is meant one which, following the forms
of law, is appropriate to the case, and just to the parties to be
affected. It must be pursued in the ordinary mode prescribed
by the law, it must be adapted to the end to be attained, and
wherever it is necessary for the protection of the parties, it must
give them an opportunity to be heard respecting the justice of
the judgilient sought. The clause in question means, therefore,
that there can be no proceeding against life, liberty, or property
which may result in deprivation of either, without the observance of those general rules established in our system of jurisprudence for the security of private rights."
It was said in Jitherspoon v Duncan, 4 Wall. 210, that
the States, as a general rule, had the right to determine the
manner of levying and collecting taxes upon private property,
and could declare a tract of land chargeable with taxes, irrespective of its ownership, or in whose name it was assessed or
advertised, and that an erroneous assessment did not vitiate the
sale. In .Mc.illen v Anderson, 95 U S. 37, it was held that
due process of law. did not require that a person should have an
opportunity to be present when the tax was assessed against
him, or that the tax should be collected by suit, and m Kelley
v Pitsburh,104 U S. 78, that the general system of procedure for the levy and collection of taxes, established m this
country, is, within the meaning of the Constitution, due process of
law In Bell's Gap R. R. Co. v. RPennsylvanza, 134 U. S.

TURPIN v. LEMON.
Opinion of the Court.

232, 239, it was held that the process of taxation did not require the same kind of notice as is required in a suit at law, or
even in proceedings for taking private property under the
power of eminent domain. "It involves no violation of due
process of law, when it is executed in accordance to customary
forms and established usages, or in suboMdination to the principles which underlie them."
The main objection to section 25, abovequoted, seems to be
that it makes the deed conclusive evidence of the regularity of
all prooeedings not appearing of record, and hence that it is
obnoxious to the ruling of this court in .Mar- v Hanthorn,
148 U. S. 172, in which we held that as the legislature could
not deprive one of his property by making his adversary's claim
to it conclusive of its own validity, it could not make a tax
deed conclusive evidence of the holder's title to land.
But conceding this to be so, there is another section proper
to be considered in this connection, and that is section 29, whicli
reads as follows
"29. In all cases in which a question shall arise as to any
such sale or deed, or the effect thereof, .such deed shall be prna
facze evidence against the owner or owners, legal or equitable,
of the real estate at the time it was sold, his or their heirs.and
assigns,
that the person named in the deed as clerk
of the county court was such, that the sheriff or other officer
who made the sale was such sheriff or officer as stated in such
deed, that the materzal facts therezn r'ected are true, and that
such estate as is mentioned in the twenty-fifth section of this
chapter vested in the grantee in the deed."
Assuming the common law rule to be, as stated by the elementary writers upon taxation, that the purchaser at a tax
sale is bound to take upon himself the burden of showing the
regularity of all proceedings prior thereto,. it is entirely clear
that statutes declaring the tax deed to beprmmaface evidence,
not only of regularity in the sale, but of all prior proceedings,
and of title in the purchaser, are valid, since the only effeot of
such statutes is to change the burden of proof which rested at
common law upon the purchaser and cast it upon the party
who contests the sale. Indeed, the validity of these acts was

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
,Opinion of the Court.

expressly'affirmed by this court in Pillow v Roerts, 13How
472, 476, and Williams v. "Kirtland,1 Wall. 306.
'Even if the provisions of section 25,. naking irregularities of
a sale 'immaterial, were invalid, it would still result that under
section 29 the facts recited'in the deed wbuld be presumed to
be true, and the burden be thrown upon the landowner of disproyring them. This burden the plaintiff has not assumed, but
he is content to rely, and stake his whole case, upon the fact
that the return of the sheriff did not show a compliance with
the procedure marked out by the staiute. Even if it were admitted that due process of law required the observance of all
the steps prescribed by this statute, it does not demand that
they shall be made matter of record, much less that they shall
bemade matter of a particular record, such for instance as the
return of the sheriff of the sale of the lands. Under the Fourteenth Amendment, the legislature is bound to provide a method
forthe assessment and collection of taxes that shall not be-in-consistent -with natu 'al justice , but it is not bound to provide
that the particular steps 6f a-procedure "fol' the collection of
such taxes shall be proven by written evidence, and it may
properly impose upon the taxpayer the burden of showifig that
in a particular case the statutory method was not observed.
The fact that the.return of the sheriff does not recite the various steps of the procedure when the statute does not contem,plate that it shall do so, is no,.evidence whatever that they were
not followed tb, the letter: -If the plaintiff had alleged that in
,the proceedings for the sale of these lands the sheriff had failed
to comply with the law, and the defendant had pleaded that
by the curative section (25), irregularities not appearing of record would not vitiate the deed, the constitutionality of that
seotion vould properly be raised, but the plaintiff in this case
was content to put -his bill upon the ground that the record,
namely, the sheriff's-return of sale_ did not set forth that -the
procedure prescribed by- statute, preceding and accompanying
the sale, had been followed. Thisi.s an effort to test the constitutionality of the law without showing that the plaintiff had
been injured by its application, and in this particular the case
falls within our ruling in Tyler v Judges of Regwtration, 179

BAKER v. BALDWIN.
Syllabus.

U. S. 405, wherein we held that the plaintiff was bound to show
he had personally suffered an injury before he could institute
a bill for relief. In short, the case made by the plaintiff is
purely academic. For aught that appears, the proceedings may
have been perfectly regular, and his bill rests solely upon the
proposition that there -may have been irregularities in the sheriff's sale, and that, if there were, the statute validating the
deed, notwithstanding such irregularities, is unconstitutional,
and deprives him of his property without due .process of law
Thins proposition contains its own answer.
The exact case then made by the bill is this The -plaintiff
seeks to avoid a sale made twelve years before by an allegation that the record, namely, the sheriff's return of. the sale,
does not show a compliance with the statute in certain particulars, without also averring that in fact there was a failure,
to perform some step required by law To bold a sale invalid npoii these allegations might result in upsetting every
sale for taxes made in West Virginia for- the past twenty
.years.
We are of the opinion that no case is made by the bill, that
the udgment of the Circuit Court is correct, and it is there-

fore
Affl'med.

BAKER v. BALDWIN.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF 'THESTATE OF MICHIGAN.
No. 4. Submitted October 14,1902.-D.ecided November 3, 1902.

The Supreme- Court of Michigan affirmed a decree compelling the release
of a moitgage, payment whereof had been tendered in silver dollars coined
after 1878 and refused on the ground that the legal tender provisions of
the act of Congress of February 28, 1878, were unconstitutional. As
such decision was not against the validity of the statute but sustained its
validity, and as the jurisdiction of this court over the judgments and decrees of state courts i Iuits involving the validity of statutes of the Uni-

