ROMIG v. GILLETT.

ill

Syllabus.

within the statute, yet such decision being a legal error does
not bind the courts.
Without deciding, therefore, or expressing any opinion upon
the various constitutional objections set out in the bill of complainants, but simply holding that the admitted facts show no
violation of the statutes cited above, but. an erroneous order
given by the Postmaster General to defendant, which the courts
have the p6wer to grant relief against, we are constrained to
reverse the judgment of the Circuit Court, with instructions to
overrule the defendant's demurrer to the amended bill, with
leave to answer, and to grant a temporary injunction as applied
for by complainants, and to take such further proceedings as
may be proper and not inconsistent with this opinion. In overruling the demurrer we do not mean to preclude the defendant
from showing on the trial, if he can, that the business of complainants as in fact conducted amounts to a violation of the
statutes as herein construed.
Judgment reversed.
MR. JUSTICE WHITE and MR. TUSTICE M0KNNA, believing the
judgment should be affirmed, dissented from the foregoing
opinion.

ROMIG v. GILLETT.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF OKLAHOMA.
No. 52. Arged October 20, 21, 1902.-

Decided November 17,1902.

Under §§ 3950, 3951 and 3955 of the statutes of Oklahoma where a judgment of foreclosure and sale of land in Oklahoma Territory is based upon
service of the summons by publication, the facts tending to show'tbe exercise of due diligence in attempting to serve the defendant within the
Territory must be disclosed in the affidavit on which the order for service
by publication is based.
But where a publication has been made, approved by the court and a decree entered thereon, and the mortgagee put in possession thereunder.
the mortgage not having been paid, and the mortgagee has improved the

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Statement of the Case.
property, § 4498 of the dtatutes of Oklahoma will protect the mortgagee
in possession, and' equitable principles must control the measure of relief to which the defendant is entitled, and while she will be given the
right to appear, plead and make such defence as under the facts and pruxciples of equity she isentitled to, the possession of the mortgagee will
not be disturbed in advance of such defence.
A mortgagee who enters into possession, not forcibly but peacefully and
under the authority of a foreclosure proceeding cannot be dispossessed by
the mortgagor or one claiming under him, so long as the mortgage remains unpaid (following Bryan v. .Brasius,162 U. S. 414).

ON February 2, 1895, Don A. Gillett made and delivered to
John Romig a note for seven hundred dollars, secured by a
mortgage on eighty acres in Garfield County, Oklahoma. On
February 6, 1895, the mortgagor sold and conveyed the real
estate to Myrtle Gillett. On March 11, 1896, the mortgagee
Romig commenced an action of foreclosure in the District
Court of the county against Don A. Gillett and Myrtle Gillett. In the petition Myrtl6 Gillett was alleged to have some
interest in the real estate, but junior and subsequent to plaintiff's mortgage. A summons 'ias issued and returned not
served, the sheriff certifying that the defendants were not found
in qarfield County On June 2 plaintiff filed an affidavit for
publication, which affidavit disclosed fully the nature of the
action and the relief sought, and added
"Affiant further says that he is unable and that the plaintiff
is unable by using due diligence to obtain service of summons
on the said defendants within the Territory of Oklahoma.
"Afflant further states that on the - day of March, 1896, he
caused a summons to be issued in said cause for said defendants, directed to the sheriff of Garfield county, Oklahoma, Territory Sheriff made return, 'Defendants not found in my
county
"ffiant further states upon information and belief that the
'said defendants Don A. Gillett and. Myrtle Gillett are non-residents of the Territory of Oklahoma, and that service of summons cannot' be made on the said defendants Don A. Gillett
and Myrtle Gillett within the said.Territoty of Oklahoma,.and
that said plaintiff wishes to obtain service upon said defendants by-publication, and further affiant sayeth not."

ROMIG v. GILLETT.
Statement of the Case.

Publication was made and proof thereof filed as required by
the statutes. On December 18, 1896, a judgment of foreclosure was entered against both defendants and a sale of the real
estate ordered. An order of sale was issued on January 20,
1897. A sale was made to the plaintiff and confirmed by the
court March 1, 1897, and an order entered directing the sheriff
to execute a deed to the purchaser and put him in possession.
A deed was accordingly made and the plaintiff put in possession on March 9, 1897. Thereafter Daniel W Harding purchased the property from the plaintiff Romig, received a
deed therefor and entered into possession on March 10, 1897.
He improved the property, which up to that time was unimproved prairie land, by the erection of three residences
and other permanent structures of the value of $2000, paid
taxes to the amount of $200, and has ever since resided
thereon.
On May 11, 1898, Myrtle Gillett filed a motion to set aside
the judgment, and all proceedings had thereunder, on the
ground that the court had never acquired any jurisdiction,
that she was at all times during the pendency of the action a
resident of the Territory of Oklahoma, living in an adjoining
county and within twenty miles of the mortgaged real estate,
and, that slhe ad noknowledge of the institution or lirosecution of the-cause. until long after the sale of the land- by the'
sheriff. Upon the hearing of this motion the court entered an
order setting aside the judgment and all subsequent proceedings, and directing that she be put in immediate possession of
the premises. This order and judgment of the:trial court was
affirmed by the Supreme Court of the Territory on June 30,
1900, (10 Oklahoma, 186), whereupon the case was brought here
on appeal.
The statutes of Oklahoma of 1893, -which were in force at
the time of these proceedings, required that actions for the
foreclosure of a mortgage be brought in the county in which
the real. estate is situated. Section 3950 authorized service by
publication in such cases "where any or all of the defendants
reside out of the Territory, or where the plaintiff with due diligence is unable to make service of summons upon such defendant
VOL. OLXxXVii-8

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
.Statement

of the Case.

or defendants within the Territory"
4498 read as follows

Sections 3951, 3955 and

"SEC. 3951. Before service can be made by publication, an

affidavit must be filed stating that the plaintiff, with due diligence, is unable to make service of the summons upon the defendant or defendants to be served by publication, and showing
that the case'is one of those mentioned in the preceding section. When such affidavit is filed, the party may proceed to
make service by publication."
"SEc. 3955. A party against whom a judgment or order has
been rendered, without other service than by publication m a
newspaper, may at any time within three years after the date
of the judgment or order, have the same opened, and be let in
to defend. Before the judgment or order shall be opened the
applicant shall give notice to the adverse party of his intention
to make such an application, and shall .file a full answer.to the
petition, pay all costs, if the court requiri theim to be paid, and
make it appear to the satisfaction of the court, by affidavit,
that during the pendency of the. action he had no actual notice thereof m time to appear in court and make his defence,
but the title to any property, the subject of the judgment or
order sought to be opened, which, by it, or in consequence of it,
shall have passed to a purchaser in good -faith, shall not be affected by any proceedings under this,section."
"S~c. 4498. Iii all cases any' occupying claimant being in
quiet possession of any lands or tenements for which such person can show a plain and connected title in law or equity,
or being in quiet possession of and holding the same
from and under any person claiming title as
by deed,
or being in quiet possession of, and holding
'aforesaid,
the same under sale on execution or order of sale against any
or any person in
person clamung title as aforesaid, .
quiet possessidn of anyland claiming title thereto, and holding
in purthe sarwe under a sale and conveyance made
'suance..pf any order of court or decree in chancery where landsare ok have been directed, to be sold and the purchasers thereof
have obtamed title to and possssion of the same without any
-fraud or collusion on his, her or t heir part, shall not be evicted
,.

ROMIG v. GILLETT.
Opinion -of the Court.

or thrown out of possession by any person or persons who shall
set up and prove an adverse and better title to said lands until
said occupying claimant Ins, her or their heirs, shall be paid
the full value of all lasting and valuable improvements made
on said lands by such occupying claimant, or by the person or
persons undee whom he, she or they may hold the same previous to receiving actual notice by the commencement of suit
on such adverse claim by which eviction may be effected."
.fr A. A. Hoehling, Jr., for appellants., .r Charles S.
Wil8om was with hm. on the brief.
_Yr William XE. .pnger for appellee.
Rush was withhinm on-the brief.
MR.JusTic

BREwER,

.A

George P.

after making the foregoing statement,

delivered the opinion of the court.
The Supreme Court of Oklahoma was of opinion that the
affidavit for service by publication was wholly insufficient in
that it alleged the non-residence of defendants simply upon information and belief and not positively, that being so insufficient the defendant Myrtle Gillett was not brought into court,
and the judgment and all subsequent proceedings were as to
her absolutely void. *Onthe other hand, it is contended by the
appellants that a separate ground for service by publication
is "where the plaintiff with due diligence is unable to make
within the Territory ;" that the
service of summons
affidavit for publication stated positively such inability, that
therefore it was strictly within the statute, and authoized'the
publication of notice ,. that the publication was duly made, the
cJefendants were thereby brought into court and the judgment
and all subsequent proceedings were regular -and valid. It
may well be doubted whether this contention of appellants can
be sustained, at least in cases like this of direct and not collateral attack, even if the- inability to obtain personal service
by the exercise of due diligence is a distinctive ground for service by publication. , It would seem that the facts tending to

OCTOBER TERM,

1902.

Opinion of the Court.

show such diligence should be disclosed and that an affidavit
merely alleging inability was one of a conclusion of law and
not of facts. McDonald v Cooper, 32 Fed. Rep. 745, Carleton v Carleton, 85 N. Y 313, 3lcCracken v. -Flanagan,127
N. Y 493, 1?'iketson v .Richardson,26 California, 149, Braly
v ,Srea/man, 30 California, 610, Kahn v 21atthata, 115 California,
689, Little v Chambers, 27 Iowa, 522, ThomLpson v. SA~awassee Circuit Judge, 54 Michigan, 236, Alderson v. .arshall, '7 Montana, 288. Nor as this inability shown by the
mere fact that a summons issued to the sheriff of the county in
which the land is situated is returned not served, for in -cases
.of this kind by section 3934: a summons can be issued to and
served in any county of the Territory
But while the affidavit for publication may have been insufficient, we are unable to concur with the. Supreme Court of Oklahoma in its conclusions. A publication of notice was in fact
made, and a publication based upon an affidavit which, however
defective it may have been, was intended to be in compliance
with the statute. It was approved by the court, which upon
it rendered a decree of foreclosure, which was executed by the
proper officers in the proper way By virtue of the proceedings the mortgagee was put into possession-a possession which
he transferred to the appellant Harding. Under those circumstances what right has the appellee, a grantee from the mortgagor 2 The foreclosure was a proceeding in equity, although
its various steps were prescribed by statute. Equitable principles must control the measure of relief. Even if the publication
had been founded upon an affidavit perfect in form and the decree and all proceedings had been in strict conformity to the
statute, yet by section 3955 the defendant would be let in to
defend upon compliance with certain conditions.
Assuming that that section is not fully applicable because of
the"defect in the affidavit, yet the appellee comes into a court
of equity seeking relief against the fbreclosure of a mortgage.
In sqch a case there are almost always certain conditions of relief. If the mortgage be ',alid the rights of the mortgagee and
those 6laiming under him are to be protected. Generally such
rights are protected by requiring payment of the mortgage debt

ILOMIG v. GILLETT.
Opimon of the Court.

and granting a right of redemption. It is true that this right
of redemption is a favored right. Russell v. ,Southard,12 How
139, Villa v 1Rodrtguez, 12 Wall. 323', Bsger v. Wailer, 14
Wall. 297, -Noyes v. Hall, 97 T. S. 34, Shillaber v Robinson,
97 U. S. 68. But it is only a right of redemption which in this
case and under the facts disclosed the appellee is entitled to.
She does not pretend in her affidavit that the mortgage was
invalid, or that it had been paid. She claims by a deed subsequent to the mortgage, and simply insists that she has not had
her day in court, and therefore her rights, which, so far as appears, are only the rights of redemption, have not been cut off.
Harding, as the grantee of the purchaser at the foreclosure sale,
stands in the shoes of the mortgagee. Bryan v. Brassus;162
U. S. 415. As shown by the opinion in that case and cases, cited
therein a mortgagee who enters into possession, not forcibly
but peacefully and under the authority of a foreclosure proceeding, cannot be dispossessed by the mortgagor, or one claiming
under him, so long as the mortgage remains unpaid.
Under section 4498 the appellant tHarding has all the rights
of an occupying claimant, for hewas "in quiet possession
.nnder a sale-and
aiid holding
claiming title
of
a decree
in
pursuance
conveyance made
to
have been directed be sold
m chancery where lands
-and the purchasers thereof have obtained title to and possession
of the same without any fraud or collusion." Of course, 'this
section applies to proceedings which are defective, for if not
defective, by section 3955 a purchaser a.in good faith has title
and cannot be evicted upon any terms.
The decree of the Supreme Court of Oklahoma will be reversed and the case remanded to that court, with instructions
to set aside the order of the trial court, and t9 direct the entiry
of one which, without disturbing the possession, of Harding,
will give to the appellee the right to appear, plead and make
such defense as under the facts ofj the case and the principles
of equity she is entitled to.
Decree reversed.

