PICKENS v. ROY.
Counsel for Appellant.

the converse of the proposition -when presented by a different
state of fact8.
We are of opinion that the jurisdiction of the.District Court.
to make the injunction order in question cannot.be maintained.
Loumville Trust Compay v. Comzn or, 184 U. S., 18, 26..
The first question will be answered in the negative, and the
third question in the affirmative, and it is unnecessary to answer the other questions.
Certif te acrdiigZy.

PIOKEIS '. ROY.
APPERAL FROM THE COCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE FOURTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 78. Submitted November 10, 1902.-Decided December 1,1902.
Where a judgment creditor filed abill in a stab court to set aside a conveyance made'by a person, who during the pendency of the action and
years after its commencement is adjudged a bankrupi,,and to apply the
proceeds of the.property affected'towards the payment of the debt, the
state court acquires such complete jurisdiction and control over the bankrupt and his.property that jurisdiction is not divested iy proceedings in
bankruptcy, and it is the duty of the state court to proceed to final
decree notwithstanding the adjudication in bankruptcy, under the rule
that the court which first acquires rightful jurisdiction over the subject
matter should not be. interfered'with; aud the District Court of the
United States in which the bankruptcy proceedings are pending has
no jurisdiction to restrain the complainants in.the state court from
executing their decree obtained in that court.
Nor does the mere fact that the complainant ihi such an action in a state
court proved up her judgment as a preferred debt in bankruptcy "without waiving her preference," operate to deprive the State court of jursdicion oramount to a consent to the exercise of jurisdiction by the District Court to restrain her from executing the judgment.
See also Metcalf ,Brothers C
Co. v. Barker, decided thrs term, p 1651 ante.

THE case is stated in the opinion of the court,
.M'r. John TF .Davo for appellant.
were with him on-the brief'
VOL. cLxxxvii-12

_Less'r_ -Davfis & Dam

178'

OCTOBEI TERIM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

.Mr Edwin .Naxwell for appellees.
was with him on the brief.

_M,

J Hop. Woods,

MR. CHIEF JusTiCE FuLLER delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an appeal from a decree of the United States Circuit
Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit a'fiming the decree of
the District Court for the District of West Virginia dissolving
an injunction and dismirsing a bill filed in that court by Dever
Pickens against Susan C. Dent and others. 106 Fed. Rep. 653.
The facts necessary to be considered in disposing of the case
were stated by the Circuit Court of Appeals in substance as
follows January 24, 1889, Susan C. Dent (afterwards Susan
C. Dent Roy) exhibited her bill in the Circuit Court of Barbour County, West Virginia, against Dever Pickens and others,
to set aside as fraudulent a certain deed made by Pickens to
trustees, bearing date January 14, 1889, and assailing as fraudulent certain indebtedness thereby secured. At the succeeding
September rules ail amended bill was filed alleging that complainant. Dent (Roy) on July 23, 1889, recovered a judgment
at law against Pickens for the sum of $10,000, with interest
and costs. Complainant prayed that the real estate mentioned
in the bill as the property of Pickens, and described in the trust
deed, might be sold, and the proceeds applied to the payment
of her judgment and in satisfaction of the liens existing on the
land. The judgment was subsequently reversed, and a retrial
resulted on February 27, 1892, in a judgment for $9000, with
interest and costs,, and a second amended bill was filed so
alleging.
The Circuit Court of Appeals did not deem it essential to
give a history of the many years of "bard fought and well
contested litigation," which followed, but stated that the case
was pending and undisposed of by the Circuit Court of Barbour
County, October 30, 1899, when Pickens was adjudicated a
bankrupt by the District Court of the United States for the
District of,.Wegt Virginia on a petition filed October27. After
the adjudication, and on November 2, 189-9, Pickens filed an
answer in the chancery cause, in which he set up, the proceed-

PICKENS v. ROY
Opinion of the Court.

ings in bankruptcy, asked that all further action in the state
court might be suspended until the District Court had disposed
of those proceedings, and contendd that all his estate, rights
and interests of every kind and description, had passed from
the control of the Circit Court of Barbour County and into
the jurisdiction of the District Court. On November 18, 1899,
a trustee in bankruptcy was appointed for Pickens' estate, who
in February, 1900, presented to the Circuit Court of Barbour
County his petition in the chancery cause, asking that he be
made a. party,, that his petition stand -as -an answer, and that
the Circuit Court proceed to the enforcement of the liens.
against the bankrupt's estate, and, thereafter, on February 23,
1900, that court rendered a decree by which, among other
thiAgs, it was ordered that the deed of trust referred to in.the
bill be set aside as fraudulent and -that a special. commissioner
and receiver therein named should rent the land- described until a certain day and then sell the same, the proceeds thereof to
be applied to the payment of the debts due by Pickens. November 20, 1899, complainant Dent (Roy), "without waiving
her preference," tendered her proof of debt before the referee
in bankruptcy, it being the judgment in question, which was
allowed as a preferred claim against the 'bankrupt's estate.
The receiver and commissioner appointed in the chancery
court was' proceeding to execute the decree therein when Pickens filed his bill in the District -Court March 31, 19.00, against'
Dent (Roy) and others, rehearsing the facts relating to the suit
and to the proceedings in bankruptcy, charging that the trustee
was not .authorized to intervene in the chancery cause, and asserting that the state -court on the filipng of Pickefis' angwer
setting up his adjudication should -have taken no further action,
and that, therefore, the. decree appointing the commissioner
and receiver to rent and 'sell the real estate was without authority of law and void..
The. prayer was that defendants be-restrained. from all further proceedings in the suit so pending in the Circuit Court of
Barbour -County until the termination of the bankruptcy proceedings ;, that the receiver and commissioner be enjoined from
executing the decree during their pendency, and that-the pos-

OCTOBER TERM, -1902.
Opinon of the Court.

session and control of the property be turned over to the trustee
to be administered under the direction of the court in bankruptcy
A preliminary injunction was granted by the district judge,
which was dissolved July 26, 1900, and Pickens' bill dismissed
with costs. From that decree this appeal was taken.
Such being the state of facts, the Ciicuit Court of Appeals
held that the District Court had no jurisdiction of the suit,
even' if it had been brought in the name of the trustee, who
could not have sued defendants below in that court in respect
of the bankrupt's' property, unless by consent, while the bankrupt himself had no standing in that court after adjudication,
Barde8 v Hawarden Bank, 178 U' S. 52-1, and further, that
as the Circuit Court of Barbour County had at the time of the
adjudication, and had had for years, complete jurisdiction and
control over the bankrupt and his property, that jurisdiction
was not divested by the proceedings in bankruptcy, and it was
the right and duty of that court to proceed to final decree notwithstanding adjudication, the rule being applicable that the
,court which first obtains rightful jurisdiction over th subject
matter should not be interfered with. _Frazterv Southern.Loan
and TYrast Company, 99 Fed. IRep. 707. And Goff, J., speaking for the court, said. "The bankrupt act of 1898 does not in
the least modify this rule but with unusual carefulness guards
it in all of its detail, provided the suit pending in the state
court was instituted more than four months before the District
Court of the United States had adjudicated the bankruptcy of
the-party entitled to or interested in the gubject matter of such
controversy 2'
The court also ruled that the mere fact that complainant
Dent (Roy) proved up her judgment as a preferred debt in bankruptcy, when, and as she did, did not operate to deprive the
state court of jurisdiction, nor amount to a consent to the exercise of jurisdicti9n by the Distrit- Court as invoked.
We are of opinion that the, Circuit Court of Appeals was
right in its rulings. The case in the one aspect came within
Bardes v ilawarden Bank-, and in the other within the rule
applied. MAetcaif v, Barker, ante, p. 165.
.Decree affirmed.

