OCTOBER TERM, 1902.

Syllabus.

susceptible of appropriation as a trade mark, and that the
marks and names, used upon the bottles. containing complainant's preparation, and upon the cartons and wrappers containing the bottles, are so plainly deceptive as to deprive the complainant company'of a right to a remedy by way of an injunction
by a court of equity
Aceordingly, the decree of the Circuit Court of Ap.pealszs r.e'versed; t4e decree of the Circutt Court ss alsoreversed, and
the cause ws remanded to that court with directions to dismiss the, bill of complaint.
MR . JusTich MoKENiNA

dissented.

CHADWICK v. KELLEY.
ERROR TO SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF LOUISIANA.
No. 63. Argued November 3, 1902.-Decided January 5, 1903.

The statutes of Louisiana and the ordinances of the city of New Orleans
which provide and regulate the method fbr paving streets at the cost of
the owners. of abutting lots, as such statutes and ordinances have been
construed'by the Supreme Court of Louisiana, are not obnoxious, under
the facts of this case to the provisions of the Fourteenth Amendment to
the Constitution of the United States.
Where an-ordinance of the city of New Orleans and specification for the
paving of a street require the contractor to employ only bonafide resident
citizens of the city of New Orleans as laborers, a resident citizen of New
Orleans, who is not one of the laborers, excluded by the ordinance from
emplQyment and. who does not occupy any representative relation to
them, cannot have a lien on his property for his pro rat% haye of the.improvements invalidated on the ground that citizens of Iouisihna and of
each and every State are deprived of their privileges and immunitibsunder
article IV, section 2, of,,aud the Fourteenth Amendment to, the Constituition of the United States:
If a person owning property affected by the assessment for the work done
under such ordinance wishes to raise such question on the ground that
the ordinance is prejudicial to his property rights because confining the
right to labor to resident citizens increases the cost of the work'.he must
raise the question in time to stay the work mnlimine.

CHADWICK v. KELLEY.
Statement of the Case.
The serious duty of condemning state legislation as unconstitutional and
void cannot be thrown upon this court except at the suit of parties directly and certainly affected thereby.

IN April, 1897, John M1. Kelley filed his petition in the Civil
District Court for the parish of Orleans against Edmund H.
Chadwick, to enforce payment of a lien on a certain square of
ground in the city of New Orleans, created and arising out of
a contract between one A. J Christopher and said city for
paving Ilagan avenue. The petition alleged due completion
of the work, an assignment or transfer by Christopher, of all
his rights and claims under the contract, to the petitioner, and
a liability of Chadwick for the amount of $638.80, with interest
thereon from September 24,1896, and also alleged that for the
payment of said sum he had by law a lien and pledge upon
said property
Chadwick answered this petition, wherein he pleaded the
general issue and certain special pleas, in one of which he denied that his property was benefited by the paving, and alleged
that, if it was so benefited, he could only be made to pay the
amount of benefit to an increased value of property, and that
no personal judgment should be rendered against him. He
also filed, in September, 1899, a supplemental answer in which,
among other things, he alleged that the ordinance under which
the work was done required the contractor to employ only bona
fide resident citizens of the city ofNew Orleans as laborers on
the work, thus depriving the citizens of the State and of each
and every State of the privileges and immunities of citizens in
the several States, secured to them by the Constitution of the
United States, which, by the second section of its fourth article,
provides that the citizens of each State shall be entitled to all
privileges and immunities of the citizens of the several States,
and he also alleged that the ordinance was likewise illegal and
unconstitutional because it imposed a liability on the property
owner, irrespective of the question whether or not his property
was benefited or damaged by the pavement, and he alleged that
the paving of the street in front of his property had been of no
benefit to it, and that the rendition of any judgment against
hun would be taking his private property for public purposes,

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinon of the Court.

contrary to the constitution of the State of Louisiana and to
that of the United States.
Evidence was taken, and the cause was so proceeded m that
on March 5, 1900, judgment was rendered against the defendant, Chadwick, in the sum of $638.80, with interest from September 24, 1896, with costs of suit, with recognition of plaintiff's
lien and privilege for the payment thereof on the said property,
the same to be sold and the proceeds to be applied to the payment of plaintiff's claim.
A suspensive appeal was thereupon allowed to the Supreme
Court of Louisiana, and that court, on February 4, 1901, affirmed
the judgment of the trial court, 104: Louisiana, 719, and subsequently allowed a writ of error to bring the cause to this
court.
.

George L. Bright for -plaintiff in error.

No brief for the defendant in error.
MiR. JUSTICE SuIRAS, after making the foregoing statement,
delivered the opinion of the court.

-In this record, Chadwick, the plaintiff in error, complains of
the judgment of the Supreme Court of Louisiana in two particulars First, in upholding as valid the statutes of Louisiana
and the ordinances of the city of New Orleans, which provide
and regulate the method for the paving of streets at the cost of
the owners of abutting lots, and, second, in 'upholding as valid
the ordinance of the council of the city of New Orleans, which
provides that, in all the contracts let by the city -for public
works, of any kind and nature, the contractor shall not employ
resident citizens of the city as laborers
any other but bonca&
on such public works.
Of course, this court is restricted to a consideration of these
questions in their Federal aspect.
The brief of the counsel of the plaintiff in error contends that,
by the statutes of the State of Louisiana, the property owner is
made to pay the cost of the improvement irrespective of the

CHADWICK v. KELLEY.
Opinion of the Court.

question of. benefit, is made personally responsible for the cost
of the improvement, although it may largely exceed, not only
the benefit to his property, bat the value thereof, and his property is made subject to a lien to secure the payment.
So far as it is complained that by the statutes the property
owner is made personally responsible for the cost of the improvement, we learn from the opinions of the Supreme Court in
the present case and in the case of Barber A&phalt Conpany
v TWatt, reported in 51 La. Ann. 134-5, that "for the sum. assessed against their property no personal liability attaches to the
abutting owners beyond the value of the property affected, and
that the proceeding is purely one n rem, acting on the property
benefited and none other," and that "the property owner's
proportion of the cost of paving a street should be determined
by ascertaining the entire cost of the work assessable to the
property fronting thereon, and apportioning the same to said
property in proportion to foot frontage."
This construction of the state statutes by the Supreme Court
of the State must., of course, in a case like the present, be accepted by us, and we have only to consider, in this branch of
the case. whether the statutes of Louisiana, so construed, which
provide and regulate a method of improving and paving streets
in the city of New Orleans, and apportioning the cost thereof by
assessment upon the abutting property, are obnoxious, under the
facts of the present case, to the provisions of the Fourteenth
Amendment to the Constitution of the United States.
We do not feel constrained to enter at large upon a subject
which has received such frequent and recent consideration by
this court. It is, perhaps, sufficient to say that we do not perceive in the statutes of Louisiana, as construed and applied m
this case by the Supreme Court of that State,.any provisions
which we must condemn as being in disregard of the constitutional rights of the plaintiff in error. In view of our decisions,
we certainly cannot say that, as matter of law, a state statute
which makes the cost !f paving a street in a city assessable
upon the abutting properties and a lien thereon. is unconstitutional. lTillaecd v Pjeslbury, 14 'all. 676, 3fatttngly v. D2strwt of Columbia, 97 U S. 687, 8jpencer v Xlerc]hant, 125 U.

OCTOBER 'TERMi, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

S. 345, Baumzan v Ross, 167 U S. 548, Parsons v. Distriot
of Columbia, 170 U S. 45, Wigqt v Davdson, 181 U. S. 371,
French v BarberAsphalt Company, 181 U. S. 324.
In the opinion of the Supreme Court of Louisiana, which we
find in this record, it is said
"There can be no question, and in fact it is conceded, that
by Act No. 119 of 1886, and by that act as amended by Act
No. 142, of 1894, the council of the city of New Orleans was
authorized 'in its discretion to provide for the paving or banqueting of any street or portion thereof, at the expense of the
whole city, and to thereupon force, impose and collect of the
front proprietors of lots fronting on said street, a special assessment in proportion to frontage of three quarters of the cost of
said improvement,' and that by said acts it was enacted that
such local assessment should have a first privilege, superior to
vendor's privilege and all other privileges and mortgages.
"The constitutionality of those acts is not attacked directly,
but the exercise by the city of authority, under the powers so
granted, is called in question as being illegal, and unconstitutional.
It is too late to question the right of the general assembly to establish particular districts for the attainment
of special local public good, through works of a particular character, and to order itself or authorize some political body to
order, special assessments to be made, within the distrfct, for
-the purpose of meeting the cost and expenses of such works.
It is true that in
George v Sherif, 45 La. Ann. 1232.
some instances almost the whole benefit accrues to a few, but
there can be no universal rule of justice. upon which such assessments can be made. An apportionment of the cost that would
be just in one case, would be oppressive in another. For this
reason, the power to determine when a special assessment shall
be made, and on what basis it shall be apportioned, rests in the
legislature or some political body to which it has delegated that
The city has simply exercised its unquesauthority
tionable right and power of paving an existing public street in
the interest of the special local public benefit, and demanded of
owners of property abutting and fronting on the street that they
contribute to the cost of the improvement in a manner and form,

CHADWICK v. KELLEY.
,Opinion of the Court.

and to an extent fixed by the general assembly The object of
the paving of the street was to benefit parties owning property
upon it by the improvement of the access to their properties. It is
not pretended that this particular purpose was not accomplished
even as to appellant's property It cannot be exacted for the
purpose of sustaining the constitutionality of a statute or ordinance authorizing a work of local public improvement, at the
cost of abutting owners, that it be shown there is benefit in
every possible respect to the particular owners, nor that the
The general assembly
benefit be direct and immediate.
the common counupon
has, in Act No. 119 of 1886, conferred
cil the right and power by a two thirds vote to constitute any
particular street which it proposes to pave, a special taxing district for the purpose of meeting the cost of making such paving.
It has exercised this right and power in the matter of the paving of agan avenue. Having done so, the legislature itself
has designated how, in what proportion and by what standard
this cost is -to be met. The council was not at liberty to depart
from this apportionment. The judiciary is not authorized to
alter it and to substitute for a fixed legislative standard, a fluctuating judicial standard based upon actual benefits received
and measured by values or enhanced values to be established
by evidence and proof."
We think these views are consonant with the great weight
of authority, both state and Federal. As expressed by Cooley
in his work on Taxation, 1st ed. page 429
"The matter is wisely confided to the legislature, and -could
not, without the introduction of some new principle in repreWith the
sentative government, be placed elsewhere.
wisdom or unwisdom of special assessments w'hen ordered in
cases in which they are admissible, the courts have no concern,
unless there is plainly and manifestly such an abuse of power
as takes the case beyond the just limits of legislative discretion."
No such case is presented by the facts in the present case as
would justify an intervention by the Federal courts with a
system of special assessments prescribed by the legislature and
approved by the courts of a State.
VOL. CLXXXVII-35

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

Because the ordinance and specifications, under which the
paving in this case was done, require the contractor to employ
only bona fide resident citizens of the city of New Orleans as
laborers on the work, it is contended, on behalf on the plaintiff in error, that thereby citizens of The State of Louisiana.
and of each and every State and the inhabitants thereof, are
deprived of their privileges and immunities under article 4,
sec. 2, and under the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution of the United States. It is said that such an ordinance
deprives every person, not a bona ftde resident of the city of
New Orleans, of the right to labor on the contemplated improvements, and also is prejudicial to the property owners, because, by restricting the number of workmen, the price of the
work is increased.
Such questions are of the gravest possible importance, and, if
and when actually presented, would demand most careful consideration, but we are not now called upon to determine them.
In so far as the provisions of the city ordinance may be
claimed to affect the rights and privileges of citizens of Louisiana and of the other States, the plaintiff in error is in no pos.tion to raise the question. It is not alleged, nor does it appear,
that he is one of the laborers excluded by the ordinance from
employment, or that he occupies any representative relation to
them. Apparently he is one of the preferred class of resident
citizens of the city of New Orleans.
It is further argued that the ordinance is prejudicial to the
property rights of the plaintiff in error, because by confining
the right to labor on works of municipal improvement to resident
citizens, the cost of such works might thus be increased.
But we think such a consequence is too far-fetched and uncertain on which to base judicial action. Theplaintiff in error
did not raise such a question in time to stay the work in limine.
He awaited the completion of the work, and until his property
had received the benefits, whatever they were, of the improvement. Nor did he, on the trial, adduce any evidence from
which the court might have found that the actual cost in the
present case was increased by the operation of the ordinance.
Possibly the effect of the ordinance in preferring the labor of

MANLEY v. PARK.
Syllabus.

resident citizens might tend toincrease the cost of the work, or
it might have the opposite effect by inducing outside laborers
to become resident citizens. But, as we have said' such conjectural results are too remote and uncertain to furnish materials
for judicial determination. The serious duty of condemning
state legislation as unconstitutional and void cannot be thrown
upon this court, except at the suit of parties directly and certainly affected therebyThe judgment of the Supreme Court of Louisiana is
Afflrmed.
MR. Jusrm; HAii

and MR. JUSTICE

WHITE

dissent.

MANLEY v. PARK.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF KANSAS.
No. 120. Argued December 17, 1902.-Decidpd January 5, 1903.
1

The construction given bythe Supreme Court of Kansas to the Kansas statutes holding that real estate situated in that State, the title to which was
vested in a non-l'esident executor, to whom letters testamentary had been
issudd by a court of another jurisdiction, may be attached and sold in an
action of debt against the non-resident executor, is binding on this court.
And, treating the statutes as having such import as a decision upon a
matter of local law, this court must determine whether as so construed
they violate the Federal right involved.
A domestic judgment of a state court entered after the defendant had appeared generally and whose validity it would have been the duty of this
cohrt to uphold on direct proceedings to o!tain a reversal thereof, should
be treated by courts of the United States so faras it relates to Federal questions which existed at the commencement of the action, as valid between
the parties to the judgment. and if no claim to the protection of the Constitution of the United States was set up in any form in the proceedings
had in the state court prior to judgment, such protection cannot be invoked for the first time in this court to annul the judgment on the ground
tha it is absolutely void and of no effect under the Constitution of the
United States.
AFederal defence which cannot be availed of unless raised before judgment
is not efficacious, when it has not been raised at the proper time, to avoid
the judgment when rendered.

