BAKER v. BALDWIN.
Syllabus.

U. S. 405, wherein we held that the plaintiff was bound to show
he had personally suffered an injury before he could institute
a bill for relief. In short, the case made by the plaintiff is
purely academic. For aught that appears, the proceedings may
have been perfectly regular, and his bill rests solely upon the
proposition that there -may have been irregularities in the sheriff's sale, and that, if there were, the statute validating the
deed, notwithstanding such irregularities, is unconstitutional,
and deprives him of his property without due .process of law
Thins proposition contains its own answer.
The exact case then made by the bill is this The -plaintiff
seeks to avoid a sale made twelve years before by an allegation that the record, namely, the sheriff's return of. the sale,
does not show a compliance with the statute in certain particulars, without also averring that in fact there was a failure,
to perform some step required by law To bold a sale invalid npoii these allegations might result in upsetting every
sale for taxes made in West Virginia for- the past twenty
.years.
We are of the opinion that no case is made by the bill, that
the udgment of the Circuit Court is correct, and it is there-

fore
Affl'med.

BAKER v. BALDWIN.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF 'THESTATE OF MICHIGAN.
No. 4. Submitted October 14,1902.-D.ecided November 3, 1902.

The Supreme- Court of Michigan affirmed a decree compelling the release
of a moitgage, payment whereof had been tendered in silver dollars coined
after 1878 and refused on the ground that the legal tender provisions of
the act of Congress of February 28, 1878, were unconstitutional. As
such decision was not against the validity of the statute but sustained its
validity, and as the jurisdiction of this court over the judgments and decrees of state courts i Iuits involving the validity of statutes of the Uni-

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.
ted States can only be exercised under section 709 of the Revised Statutes when the decision is against their validity, the writ of error was dismissed.
THE

case is stated- in the opinion of the court.

.216' Albert B. Hall and X6r Fred A. Baker, in propr
.ersona, for plaintiff in error.
Xr Timothy . Tarsney for defendant m error.
MR.

CHIEF JUSTIOE

FULLEiR delivered the opinion of thb

court.
This was a bill filed, by Stephen Baldwin in the Circuit Court
for the county of Oakland, Michigan, against Fred A. Baker,
to compel the 'release of a mortgage given to secure payment of
a promissory note for three hundred and thirty dollars, dated
January 12, 1894, and payable in three years thereafter.
Baldwin had purchased the land subject to the mortgage,
which had been assigned tb Baker, and tendered the amount
due theieon in silver dollars coined after 1878. This tender
Baker declined to accept on the ground that the legal tender
provisions of the act of Congress of February 28, 1878, entitled
"An act to authorize the coinage of the standard silver dollar,
and to restore its legal-tender character," 20 Stat. 25, c. 20,
were unconstitutional, and refused to discharge the mortgage
as demanded by Baldwin.
The Circuit Court for Oakland County entered a decree in
accordance with the prayer of the bill, and Baker carried the
cause by appeal to the Supreme Court of Michigan, which affirmed the decree. Baldwin v Baker, 121 Michigan, 259. Tls
writ of error was then allowed.
The Supreme Court of Michigan said "The sole question
presented is whether the act in question, making the silver dollar of .412.5 grains troy of standard silver a full legal tender for
all debts and dues, public and private, is constitutional," and
held that it was. That"decision is assigned for error but it was
not a decision against the validity of the statute, and on the
-contrary sustained its validity

KANSAS CITY SUBURBAN BELT RY CO. v. HERMAN.

63

Statement of the Case.

As our jurisdiction over the judgments and decrees of state
courts in suits in which the validity of statutes of the United
States is drawn in question can only be exercised, under section 709 of the Revised Statutes, when the decision is against
their validity the writ of error cannot be maintained. Xssou
v. Andrzano, 138 U. S. 496, Rae v Homestead .oan and Cuaranty Company, 176 U. S. 121.
Writ of error dismmssed.

KANSAS CITY SUBURBAN BELT RAILWAY COMPANY ,. HERMAN.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF KANSAS.

No. 321. Submitted October 20, 1902.-iDecided November 3,19lg.
While an action commenced in a state court against two defendants, one of
whom is a resident and the other a non-resident, may be removed to the
Circuit Court of the United States by the non-resident defendant if it can
be shown that the cause of action is separable and the resident defendant is joined fraudulently for the purpose of preventing the removal of
the cause to the Federal court, such removal cannot be had if it doesnot
appear that the resident defendant, is fraudulently joined for such purpose.
This rule will be adhered to even if on the trial of the action the lower
court holds that no evidence was given by the plaintiff tending to show
liability of the resident defendant, and a second application for removal
from the state to the Federal court has been mcde and denied after a trial.
and the trial court has sustained a demurrer to the evidence as to the
resident defendant, andwhere it appears that the ruling was on the merits
and zn vnvititm.
Powers v. Chesapeake & Ohio Railway Company, 169 U. S. 02, distinguished,
and Whitcomb v. Smithson, 175 U. S. 635, followed.
Where a fraudulent joinder of defendants is averred by the party petitioning for removal and is specifically denied, the petitioner has the affirmative of the issue.

Tis was an action brought by Andrew Herman, a minor,
by his next friend, in the Court of Common Pleas of Wyandotte County, Kansas, September 18, 1897, against the Union

