ELLIOTT -o.TOEPPNER.
Syllabus.

so much of the Comptroller's communication as requires copies
of telegrams relating to the business of the Commission to accompany telegraph vouchers for which credit is asked be disregarded by the Secretary and disbursing agent, the Commission
holding that such messages are so far confidential as to justify
refusal to disclose their contents, and that the requirement for
their production is unreasonable and against public interest."
This was a substantial compliance with the requirement of the
Comptroller.
Judgment affirmed.

ELLIOTT v. TOEPPWER.
CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SIXTH
CIRCUIT.

No. 85. Submitted November 12,1902.-Decided December 8,1902.
The right of a person, against whom an involuntary petition of bankruptcy
has been filed, to a trial by jury under section 19 of the bankruptcy act
is absolute and cannot be withheld at the discretion of the court.
The trial is a trial according to the course of the common law and the
court cannot enter judgment, as the chancellor may, contrary to the verdict, but the verdict may be set aside or the judgment may be reversed
for error of law as in common law cases.
The distinction between a writ of error which brings up matter of law only,
and an appeal, which, unless expressly restricted, brings up both law and
fact, has always been observed by this court and recognized by the legislation of Congress from the foundation of the Government.
Congress did not attempt by section 25a of the bankrupt act, which provides for appeals as in equity cases from the District Court to the Circuit
Court of Appeals from judgments adjudging or refusing to adjudge the
defendant a bankrupt, to empower the appellate court to reexamine the
facts determined by a jury under section 19, otherwise than according to
the rules of the common law. The provision applies to judgments where
trial by jury has not been demanded and the court proceeds on its own
findings of fact. In such case the facts and the law are refxaminable on
appeal; but in case of a jury trial the judgment is reviewable only by
writ of error for error in law, and alleged errors in instructions, the giving or refusal of instructions or in the admission or rejection of evidence
which must appear by exceptions duly taken and preserved bybill of ex-

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Statement of the Case.
ceptions in the absence of which such alleged errors cannot-be considered, although the transcript of the record contains what purports to be
the evidence heard by the jury, exceptions reserved to evidence, admitted
or excluded, the charge and exceptions, instructions asked and refused
and exceptions.

ELLIOTT and others filed their petition for the adjudication
of Ferdinand Toeppner as a bankrupt, in the District Court of
the United States for the Eastern District of Michigan, which
averred that Toeppner was insolvent and that he had committed
certain enumerated acts of bankruptcy under subdivisions (1), (2)
and (3) of section 3a of the bankruptcy act. Toeppner answered
denying that he was insolvent at the time the petition was filed,
and denying insolvency at the time of the commission of .the
acts charged under subdivisions (2) and (3), and at the same
time filed in writing his demand for a jury trial. The issues
were tried before a jury, who returned a verdict of not guilty
A motion for new trial was made and overruled, and the court
entered judgment adjudging that Toeppner was not a bankrupt, and dismissing the petition. From this judgment petitioners prayed an appeal to the Circuit Court of Appeals accompanied with an assignment of errors. No bill of exceptions
was asked or taken, and no writ of error was asked or allowed.
The appeal was allowed and duly perfected by giving the bond
required, and a transcript of the record was filed in the Circuit
Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit, which included, in addition to the proceedings before stated, what purported to be
the evidence heard by the jury, exceptions reserved to evidence
admitted or excluded, the charge of the court, and exceptions,
and instructions asked and refused, and exceptions.
The errors assigned related exclusively to errors alleged to
have been committed during the trial, before the jury, of the
issues submitted.By the certificate to'the transcript by the clerk of the District
Court, and under its seal, it was certified that "the above and
foregoing is a full and true transcript of the record in the matter above entitled, that I have carefully compared the same
with the original records and files of said matter in my office,
and find the same to be a true transcript of the said originals

ELLIOTT v. TOEPPNER.
Opinion of the Court.

and of the whole thereof, together with the original exhibits
produced on -the trial of said matter."
After the transcript had been filed Toeppner moved the Circuit Court of Appeals to dismiss the appeal, and to strike from
the transcript so much as purported to set out the proceedings
on the jury trial of the issues submitted to the jury The motions coming on to be argued the court, being in doubt, certified
a staxtement of the foregoing facts to this court, together with
the following question
"Has this court, under the appeal granted from the judgment refusing to adjudicate Ferdinand Toeppner a bankrupt,
authority to reexamine the proceedings upon the jury trial,
and remand for a new trial if it shall appear from the transcript
as certified to us, that there was error in instructions given or
.refused or in the admission or rejection of evidence 2"
No appearance for appellants.
.. .MichaeZ Brennan for appellee.
was with him on the brief.

.XI,

iMR. CHIEF JusrxcE FULLEP, after making

Adolph &oman

theforegoing state-

ment, delivered the opinion of the court.
The judgment of the District Court was a final judgment
that Toeppner was not a bankrupt, and that the petition be
dismissed. The question is whether the judgment could be
otherwise revised than on writ of error, for if a writ of error
should have been brought, then the Circuit Court of .Appeals
had no authority to re6xamine the proceedings on the jury
trial, on appeal, or to remand for a new trial because of error
in instructions given or refused, or in the admission or rejection
of evidence, exceptions not having been preserved by a bill of
exceptions.
Section 18d of the bankruptcy act provides" "If the bankrupt, or any of his creditors, shall appear, within the time
limited, and controvert the facts alleged in the petition, the
judge shall determine, as soon as' may be, the issues presented

OCTOBER TERIA.

1902.

Opmion of the Court.

by the pleadings, without the intervention of a jury, except in
cases where a jury trial is given by this act, and makes the adjudication or dismiss the petition."
By section 1 of the act "a person shall be deemed insolvent
within the provisions of this act, whenever the aggregate of
his property, exclusive of any property which he may have
conveyed, transferred, concealed, or removed, or permitted to
be concealed or removed, with intent to defraud, hinder or delay his creditors, shall not, at a fair valuation, be sufficient to
pay his debts."
By subdivision (1) of section 3 an act of bankruptcy is committed when a person has "conveyed, transferred, concealed,
or removed, or permitted to be concealed or removed, any part
of his property with intent to hinder, delay, or defraud his
creditors, or any of them," but by clause o "it shall be a
complete defence to any proceedings m bankruptcy instituted
under the first subdivision of this section to allege and prove
that the party proceeded against was not insolvent as defined
in this act at the time of the filing the petition against him."
lVe8t Company v Lea, 174 IT. S. 590.
Under subdivisions (2) and (3) insolvency must exist at the
time of the commission of the acts specified.
In this case, so far as acts of bankruptcy under subdivision (1) were charged, insolvency at the time of the filing of
the petition was denied, and so far as acts of bankruptcy under
subdivisions (2) and (3) were charged, insolvency at the time
the acts were committed was denied.
The burden of proving solvency in proceedings under the
first subdivsion was on the alleged bankrupt by clause a, and
on the petitiojiing creditors in proceedings under the second
and third subdivisions, unless in the contingency named- in
clause-d.
-The issues presented by the pleadings were clearly defined,
and Toeppner made written application for a trial byt jury, to
which" he was entitled by section 19, which reads.
"S~c. 19. Jury Trials.-a. A person against whom an involuntary petition has been filed shall be entitled to have a trial
by jury in respect to the question of his insolvency, except as

ELLIOTTI r TOEPPNER.
Opinion of the Court.

herein otherwise provided, and any act of bankruptcy alleged
in such petition to have been committed, upon filing a written
application therefor at or before the time within which an answer may be filed. If such application is not filed within such
time, a trial by jury shall be deemed to have been waived.
"b. If a jury is not in attendance upon the court, one may
be specially summoned for the trial, or the case may be postponed, or, if the case is pending in one of the District Courts
within the jurisdiction of a Circuit Court of the United States,
it may be certified for trial to the. Circuit Court sitting at the
same place, or by consent of parties when sitting at any other
place in the same district, if such Circuit Court has or is to have
a jury first in attendance.
"c. The right to submit matters in controversy, or an alleged
offence under this act, to a jury shall be determined and enjoyed, except as provided by this act, according to the United
States laws now in -force or such as may be hereafter enacted
in relation to trials by jury"
The right to a trial by jury on written application thus given
is absolute and cannot be withheld at the discretion of the court.
In that respect it differs from the trial of an issue out of chancery, which the court of equity is not bound to grant, nor
bound by the verdict if such trial be granted. The court cannot, as the chancellor may, enter judgment contrary to the
verdict, but the verdict may be set aside or the judgment may
be reversed for error of law as in common laiv cases.
Section 566 of the Revised Statutes provides that. "The trial
of issues of fact m the District- Courts, in all causes except
cases in equity and cases of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction, and except as otherwise provided in proceeding in bankruptcy, shall be by jury"
The District Courts as courts of bankruptcy are invested with
"such jurisdiction at law and in equity as will-enable them to
exercise original jurisdiction in bankruptcy proceedings "in the
particulars named, it being provided that the specification of
certain powers should not deprive them of powers they would
possess but for the enumeration. The proceedings in administration of the estate-are equitable in their nature, but the bank-

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

ruptcy courts act under specific statutory authority, and when
on an issue of fact as to the existence of ground for adjudication a jury trial is demanded, it is demanded as of right, and
the trial is a trial according to the course of the common law.
This being so, judgments therein rendered are revisable only on
writ of error. Insurance Company v Comstock, 16 Wall. 258;
Parsonsv Bedford, 3 Pet. 433, 448, -Duncan v Landis, 106
Fed. Rep. 839.
By section 41 of the bankruptcy act of 1867 it was provided
that the court should, if the debtor so demanded in writing,
order a trial by jury to ascertain the fact of the alleged bankruptcy, and in Insurance Company v Comstock, Mr. Justice
Clifford, speaking for the court, said "Such a provision is
certainly entitled to a reasonable construction, and it seems
plain, when it is read in the light of the principles of the Constitution and of analogous enactments, and when tested by the
general rules of law applicable in controversies involving the
right of trial by jury, that the process, pleadings, and proceedings must be regarded as governed and controlled by the rules
and regulations prescribed in the trial of civil actions at common law" The first paragraph of section two of the act was
referred to, which provided "that the several Circuit Courts of
the United States, within and for the districts where the proceedings in bankruptcy shall be pending, shall have a general
superintendence and jurisdiction of all cases and questions arising under this act, and, except when 8pecial provision is otherwise made, may, upon bill, petition, or other proper process, of
any party aggrieved, hear and aetermine the case in a court
of equity," 14 Stat. 511, c. 176, and it was held that the
case was excluded from the general superintendence and jurisdiction of the Circuit Court by the exceptibn, and that even admitting that decrees in equity rendered in the District Court
might be revised'in a summary way if Congress should so provide, it was "clear that judgments in actibns at law rendered
in that court, if founded upon the verdict of a jury, can never
be revised in the Circuit Court in that way, as the Constitution
provides that 'no fact tried by a jury shall be otherwise reexamined in any court of the United States than according to

ELLIOTT v. TOEPPNER.
Opinion of the Court.

the rule of the common law' Two modes only were known
to the common law to regxaminme such facts, to wit The
granting of a new trial by the court where the issue was tried
or to which the record was returnable, or, secondly, by the
award of a ;venz'm fanws de nevo by an appellate court for
some error of law which intervened in the proceedings. All
suits which are not of equity or admiralty jurisdiction, whatever may be the peculiar form which they may assume to settle
legal rights, are embraced in that provision. It means not
merely suits which the common law recognized among its settled proceedings, but all suits m which legal rights are to be
determined in that mode, in contradistinction to equitable
rights and to cases of admralty and maritime jurisdiction, and
it does not refer to the particular form of procedure which
may be adopted." In these observations Mr. Justice Clifford
affirmed the rulings in Parsons v. Bedford, where Mr. Justice
Story considered the Seventh Amendment in connection with
the language of Article III and the judiciary act of 1789, and
treated the last clause of the amendiment as "a substantial
and independent clause," pointing out that "the phrase 'common law,' found in this clause, is used in contradistinction to
equity, and admiralty, and maritime jurisprudence."
In Duncan v Landis similar views as to review of judgments
on verdicts in trials by jury demandable as of right were expressed by the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit,
whose opinion by Gray, J., contains a lucid exposition of the
general subject.
We need not, however, be drawn into a discussion of the
controlling force of the Seventh Amendment, as we think the
provisions of the present bankruptcy act are consistent with
the conclusions heretofore announced.
By the twenty-fourth section of the act the Supreme Court
of the United States, the Circuit Courts of Appeals, and the
Supreme Courts of the Territories are invested with "appellate
jurisdiction of controversies arising in bankruptcy proceedings
from the courts of bankruptcy from which they have appellate
jurisdiction in other cases." And it is also provided, see. 25d,
that "controversies may be certified to the Supreme Court of

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

the United States from other courts of the United States, and
the former court may exercise jurisdiction thereof and issue
writs of certiorari pursuant to the provisions of the United
States laws now in force or such as may be hereafter enacted."
In Bardes v Hfcswar.den Bank, 175 U S. 526, we held that
the fifth and sixth sections of the judiciary act of :arch 3,
1891, were not changed by the bankruptcy act. The sixth
section gives the Courts of Appeals jurisdiction to review by
appeal or writ of error final decisions in the District and Circuit
Courts in cases other than those provided for in the fifth section.
Section 24b of the bankruptcy act is "The several Circuit
Courts of Appeal shall have jurisdiction in equity, either interlocutory or final, to superintend and revise in matter of law
the proceedings of the several inferior courts of bankruptcy
within their jurisdiction. Such power shall be exercised on
due notice and petition by any party aggrieved." This is
confined to questions of law and does not contemplate a review
of the facts. XueZler v Nugent, 184 U S.1, 9.
Section 25a provides that "Appeals, as in equity cases,
may be taken in bankruptcy proceedings from the courts of
bankruptcy to the Circuit Court of Appeals of the United
States, and to the Supreme Court of the Territories, in the following cases, to wit (1) From a judgment adjudging or refusing to adjudge the defendant a bankrupt,
The distinction between a writ of error which brings up
matter of law only, and an appeal, which, unless expressly
restricted, brings up both law and fact, has always been observed by this court, and been recognized by the legislation of
Congress from the foundation of the government. .Dower v.
Richards, 151 U S. 658, 663- Wi~cart v Dauchy, 3 Dal. 321.
So far from any restriction being imposed by section 25a,
the language used is "appeals, as in equity cases," and on appeals in equity cases the whole case is open.
But Congress did not thereby attempt to empower the appellate court to reexamine the facts determined by a jury
under section 19 otherwise than according to the rules of the
common law The provision applies to judgments "adjudging
or refusing to adjudge the defendant a bankrupt," when trial

IOWA LIFE INSURANCE CO. v. LEWIS.
Syllabus.

by jury is not demanded, and the court of bankruptcy proceeds
on its own findings of- fact. In such case, the facts and the
law are re~xaminable on appeal, while the verdict of a jury
on which judgment is entered concludes the issues of fact and
the judgment is reviewable only for error of law
And it follows that alleged errors "in instructions given or
refused or in the admission or rejection of evidence" must
appear by exceptions duly taken and preserved by bill of exceptions.
In Denver -Firstlational Bank v .Klug, 186 U. S. 202, the
point raised in this case was not suggested. The question was
whether the case as presented by the record could be brought
by appeal directly to this court, and we held that it could not.
The case did not come within section 5 of the judiciary act of
March 3, 1891, nor within any provision of the bankruptcy act.
The question w answered sn the negative.

IOWA LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY v. LEWIS.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
NORTHEN DISTRICT OF TEXAS.
No. 53. Argued October 21, 22, 1902.-Decided December 8, 1902.

1. As the delivery of a policy of insurance and the payment of the premium
are reciprocal or concurrent considerations and together with the method
of payment are all essential things, it makes no difference, when the first
premium is paid by a note, whether the words "if note be given for the
payment of the premium hereon or any part thereof, and same is not paid
at maturity, the said policy shall cease and determine" be printed upon
the face or the back of the receipt given for the note or in the policy.
As such receipt expressed the conditions upon which the note was received, the memorandum on the back must be considered as embodied in
the policy and the endorsements thereon, as well as in the note and the
receipt given therefor.
2. When the first premium on a policy of insurance is paid by note and a receipt with such an endorsement thereon is given and accepted therefor,
whilst the primary condition of forfeiture for non-payment of the annual
premium is waived by the acceptance of the note, a secondary condition
thereupon comes into operation, by which the policy will be void if the

