SECURITY TRUST CO. v. BLACK RIVER NAT'L BK. 211
Statement of the Case.

SECURITY TRUST COMPANY v. BLACK RIVER
NATIONAL BANK.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRfUT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE EIGHTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 39. Argued April 21, 22, 1902.-Decided December 1, 1902.
Under the statutes of the State of Minnesota and the decisions of the courts
of that State construing and applying them, a creditor cannot maintain a
suit in the courts of that State for a debt against a decedent after the expiration of the period limited by the order of the probate court in which
creditors may present claims against the deceased for examination and
allowance, and after an allowance of the administrator's final account and
a final decree of distribution.
Although it is a well settled principle that a foreign creditor may establish
his debt in the courts of the United States against the personal representative of a decedent, notwithstanding the fact that the laws of the
State limit the right to establish such demands to a proceeding in the
probate courts of the State, it is algo equally well settled that the courts
of the United States in enforcing such claims are administering the laws
of the State of the domicile and are bound by the same rules that govern
the local tribunals; and if a foreign creditor of a Minnesota decedent
delays proceedings in the Federal court, until after, the time to present
claims fixed'by the order of the probate court has expired and the final
distribution of the estate has been effected; he canndt use the Fdderal
courts to devolve a new responsibility upon the admiistrator and interfere with the rights of other parties, creditors or distributees, which have
become vested under the regular and orderly administration'of the estate
under the laws of.the State.
Although under, the state statutes the probate court may, before final
settlement and upon good cause shown, extend the time for presentation
of claims, this court is-not called upon to determine in a case where no
application for such extensio was-made before final settlement whether
a Federal court might or might not, on good cause shown, extend such
time. It is obvious and always has been held that the United States Circult Court cannot in the trial of an action at law exercise the powers of a
court of equity.

Ix January, 1897'T, the Black River Naiional Bank of. Low-

ville brought an action in the Circuit Court of the United States
for the District of Minnesota against the Secirity Trust Corn-

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Statement of the Case.

pany of St. Pau], as administrator of the estate of Sumner W
Matteson, deceased. The complaint alleged that the plaintiff
was a corporation duly organized under the national banking
laws of the United States, having its place of business at Lowville, Lewis County, and State of New York, that the defendant was a corporation created by the laws of the State of Minnesota, having its place of business at the city of St. Paul and
State of Minnesota., and had been duly appointed administrator
.of the estate of Sumner W Matteson, deceased, by the proper
probate court of Ramsey County, Minnesota, on or about the
3d day of September, 1895, that the said :Matteson had been
during his lifetime a resident and citizen of the State of Minnesota.
For a cause of, action the complaint averred that on the 27th
day of February, 1894, the said Matteson had executed his two,
promissory notes, wherein for value received he promised to
pay to the order of James H. Easton and Company, at the First
National Bank of Decorah, Iowa, the sum of twenty-five hundred dollars, four- months after date, with interest thereon at
the, rate-of 6ight per cent per annum from date until paid, that
ther.earter, on March 22, 1894, and before~the maturity of said
notes, the said James H. Easton and Company, for value received, sold and assigned the same to the plaintiff, that said
James H. Edston and Company was a copartnership doing business at Decorah, and that all the members thereof were resiAents and citizens of the State of Iowa ; that no .part of said
notes has ev.er been paid except the interest thereon to the 24th
day of INovember,. 1894-.
The complaint further alleged that the defbndant, as alministrator of the estate of Sumner W Matteson, had in its hand
and under its control property, money and -effects which-belonged in his lifetime to said Matteson, more than suffiqient to
pay the amount due the plaintiff, that the estate of. said Matteson was in process of settlement in the'probate court-of Ramsey County, State of Minnesota, and had not 'been fully and,
finay settled and probated, and that said administrator had
never been discharged an'd was still the administrator of the
estate of said Matteson, deceased 'and plaintiff demanded judg-

SECURITY TRUST CO. v., BLACK RIVER NAT'L BK. 213
Statement of the Case.

ment against the defendant in the sum. of .five thousand dollars
and interest thereon from the 24th day of November, 1894.
On February 12, 1897, the defendant appeared and answered,
admitting those allegations of the complaint which alleged the
making and transfer of said-notes, and'that the same remained
unpaid in the hands oi the plaintiff, but denying that the defendant had in its hands as administrator of said Matteson any
money or property applicable 'to the payment of said notes.
The answer also alleged that the estate of said Matteson had
been fully settled, probated and adniinistered upon and discharged from the probate court long prior to the commencement of plaintiff's. action, and. that the .defendant had long before the commencement of this action turned over all property,
money and effects of said estate remaining in its hands, -tothe
persons entitled thereto, and that defendant long before the
commencement of this action had been disohgrged as such ad-'
mimstrator, and was not when said action was brought and is
not now administrator of the estate of said decedent.
On- arch 20, 1897, the plaintiff filed a reply, traversing the
allegations of the answer. Thereafter -and on the 18th day of
January, 1899, a. stipulation of facts- and waiver of jury trial
were filed. 'Inthe stipulation of facts jt appeared that the estate of Matteson had been settled,,.administered upon apd discharged from the probate court prior to the commencement of
plaintiff's.action in the Circuit Court of the United States.On April 17, 1899, the cause came on to be heard; on the
pleadings and stipulation of facts, and judgment was entered in
favor of the, plaintiff in the sum of $6782.89, to be paid and
enforced out of the property and .effects.of the intestate,,Sumner W Matteson, deceased, and it was ordered further that this
judgment be duly certified by this court to the probate court of
Ramsey County as a claim duly. approved, established and allowed against the estate. of Sumner W. Matteson, deceased.
Subsequently the cause was taken to the -United States Circuit Cburt of Appeals 'for the Eighth Circuit, where on Dctober 17, 1,900, thejudgment of the Circuit Court was affirmed,
on -authority of the case of the Seourity Trust Comvany, as Adof Sumner IF .atteso,
deceased, v. William H
pztratr

OCTOBER TERMI, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

Dent, as Receiver of the First _Hational Bank of Decorah,
reported in 104 Fed. Rep. 380.
Whereupon a writ of certiorari was prayed for and allowed,
and the cause was brought to this court.
XA1 Edmund .,Durment for petitioner.
Moore was with him on the brief.
.31r Edward C. Strnger for respondent.
Seymour was with him on the brief.

.M'.

Albert

1.

-Mr .Akfeil E

MR. JUSTICE SHIAs, after making the- foregoing statement,
delivered the opinion of the court.
This was a suit brought m January, 1897, in the Circuit
Court, of the United States for the District of Minnesota, by the
Black River National Bank of Lowville, incorporated under the
national banking laws of the United States, and doing business
in the county of Lewis and State of New York, against the
Security. Trust Company of St. Paul, Minnesota, as administrator of the estate of Sumner W Matteson, deceased, seeking
to recover the sum of five thousand dollars and interest thereon,
due on certain promissory notes made by said Mattes6n in his
lifetime, and which were alleged to be the property of the said
national bank.
No defence was interposed as respected the execution of the
notes or the ownership of the same by the bank. It was admitted that the Security Trust Company had been, on September 3, 1895, duly appointed by the probate court of Ramsey
County, Minnesota, administrator of the estate of said Matteson.
The defendant, however, alleged, in its answer that, as the
action was not brought until after the time limited by the
order of the probate 'court for the filing, examination and allowance of claims against Matteson's estate, nor'until after the
examination and allowance of the administrator's final account,
under the laws of the State of Minnesota, the official existence
of the defendant company as administrator had ceased, and
therefore no action could be maintained against it, and also

SECURITY TRUST

O. v. BLACK RIVER NAT'L BK. 215
Opinion of the Court.

that the right to a judgment on the notes in suit was, by the
laws of Minnesota, forever barred, although they were owned
by a non-resident of the State, and.a recovery was sought in a
Federal court.
Two inquiries are presented to us-first, whether, by virtue
of the state statutes, the estate of Matteson had been so fully
settled and administered, before the present action was brought,
as to operate as a discharge of the administration, and as a bar
to a right of the plaintiff to recover against the estate in the
state courts, and, second, if the first question must be affimatively answered, whether, not withstanding such a condition of
the statutory law of the State, an action can be successfully maintained by a citizen of another State in the Circuit Court of the
United States on a cause of action not barred by the general
statute of limitations of the State.
It is scarcely necessary to say that, as respects the first of
these inquiries, we must find an answer in the provisions of the
constitution and statutes of Minnesota as interpreted and construed by the Supreme Court of that State.
The state constitution and statutory provisions bearing upon
the question involved are the following
"Constitution, art. VI, sec. 7. There shall be established
in each organized county in the State a probate court, which
shall be a court of record, and be held at such times and places
as may be prescribed by law
A probate court shall
have jurisdiction over the - estates of deceased persons and persons under guardianship, but no other jurisdiction, except as
prescribed by this constitution."
General Statutes, 1894
"SEO. 4523. The probate court at the time of granting letters
testamentary or of administration shall make an order allowing to the executor or administrator a reasonable time, not exceeding one year and six months, for the settlement of the estate.
"SFo. 4524. The probate court may, upon good cause shown
by the executor or adminnistrator, extend the time for the settlement of the estate not exceeding one year at a time, unless in
.the judgment of the court a longer time be necessary"
"SEo. 4527. When there is not sufficient personal estate in

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opimon of the Court.

the hands of the executor or administrator to pay all the debts
and legacies and the allowance to the widow and minor children,
the probate court may, on petition of the executor or admuistrator, order the sale of the real estate or so much thereof as
may b6 necessary to pay the same."
Section 4,171 provides that real estate shall descend subject to
the debts of the intestate.
"SEc. 4638. Every executor or admimstrator shall render his
account of his administration within the time allowed him for
the settlement of the estate and at such other time as he is required by the court, until the estate is wholly settled.
"SC. 4639. When the-estate is fully administered, thd executor or administrator shall petition the probate court for an order fixing a time and place in which it will examine, settle and
allow the final account of the executor or administrator, and for
the assignment of the residue of the estate to the persons entitled
thereto by law The final account shall be filed in the probate
court at the time of filing said petition.
"SEC. 4640. Upon the filing, of said petition the court shall

make an 6rder fixing a time and place for hearing the same.
Said order shall be published according to law
"SEC. 4641. On hearing such petition, the probate court shall
examine every executor and administrator upon oath as to the
truth and correctness of his account before the same is allowed;
but such examination may be omitted when no objection is
made to the allowance of the account and there is no reason to
doubt the justness and correctness thereof, and the heirs, legatees and devisees may be examined on oath upon any matter
relating to the account of any executor or administrator whenever the correctness thereof is called in question. If from such
examination the account is found just and correct the probate
court shall allow and settle the same, and upon satisfactory evidence shall determine the rights of the persons to the residue
of said estate and unless partition is asked for and directed as
hereinafter provided make a decree accordingly, assigning said
residue to the persons thereto entitled by law
"S1Ec. 4642. In such decree the court shall name the persons
and the proportion or parts to which each is entitled, and if

SECURITY TRUST CO. v. BLACK RIVER NAT'L BK. 217
Opinion of the Court.

real estate, give a description as near as may be of the land to
which each is entitled, and such persons may demand and recover their respective shares from the executor or administrator,
or any other person having the same, and a certified copy of
any decree of distribution of real estate may be recorded in the
office of the register of deeds in every county in this' State in
which are situated any of the lands described in such decree,
and such register of deeds shall enter in his reception book the
name of the deceased as grantor, and the names of the heirs,
legatees or devisees, as grantees, and shall make in such reception book so many separate grantor and grantee entries for such
decree as there are persons taking real estate in such county
under said decree."
"SEc. 4509. At the time of granting letters testamentary or
of administration, the court shall make an order limiting the
time in which creditors may present claims against the deceased
for examination and allowance, which shall not be less than six
months nor more than .one year from the date of -such order,
said order shall fix the time or times and place in which the
court will examine and adjust claims and demands of all persons against deceased. No claim or demand shall be received
after expiration of the time so limited, unless for good cause
shown the court may in its discretion receive, hear and allow
such claim upon notice to the executor or administrator, but no
claim shall be received or allowed unless presented within one
year and six months from the time when notice of the order
is given, as provided in the next section, and before final settlement, and the allowance or disallowance of any claim shall
have the same force and effect as a judgment for or against
the estate,
' SEC. 4510. The order prescribed in section one hundred and
two shall be published according to law, and shall be notice to
all creditors and persons interested.
"SEc. 4511. All claims arising upon contracts, whether the
same be due, not due, or contingent, must be presented to the
probate court within the time limited in said order, and any
claim not so presented is barred forever, such claim or demand
may be pleaded as an offset or counterclaim to an action brought

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

by the executor or administrator. All claims shallbe itemized,
and verified by the claimant, his agent or attorney, stating the
amount due, that the same is just and true, that no payments
have been made thereon which are not credited, and that there
are no offsets to the same to the knowledge of affiant. If the
claim be not due, or be contingent, when presented, the particulars of such claim must be stated. The probate court may-require satisfactory vouchers or proofs to be produced in support
of any claim."
"SE. 4514. No action at law for the recovery of money only
shall be brought in any of the courts of this State against any
executor, administrator or guardian upon any claim or demand
which may be presentedto the probate court except as provided
in this code. No claim against a decedent shall be a-nharge
against or lien upon his estate unless presented to the probate
court as herein provided within five years after- the death of
such decedent Prowded,That this provision shall not be construed as'affecting any lien existing at the date of'such death
Prouded,fuwnther, That said provision shall not be construed
as affecting the right of a creditor to recover from the next of
kin, legatee. or devisee to the extent of assets received. This
,provision shall be applicable to the estate of persons who died
prior as well as to those who may die after adoption of this code."
"SEC. 4517. Upon the allowance or disallowance of any claim

the court shall make its order allowing or disallowing the same.
The order shall contain, the date of allowance atqd the amount
allowed, the amount disallowed, and be attached to the claim
with the offsets if any"
"SEC. 4522. In case of appeal from the allowance or disallowance of any claim in whole or in part, the District Court shall
certify to the probate court the decision or judgment rendered
therein."
Section 4665 provides for an appeal to the District Court.
Section 4668 provides for serving notice of appeal.
-Section 4612 provides that the District Court shall try the
case as if prigibially commenced in that court.
Section 4613 provides that pleadings shall be made up as in
civil actions, and the issuis of fact tried as in other actions.

SECURITY TRUST CO. v. BLACK RIVER NAT'L BK. 219
Opinion of the Court.

Section 4676. In case of a reversal or modification of the
order appealed from the District Court makes such order as the
probate court. should have made, and certifies its judgment to
the probate court.
"SEc. 4730. The probate court may, at any time, correct,
modify or amend its records to conform with the facts in the
same manner as a District Court."
State ex rel. L'ndehugel v Probate Court of Sibley County,
33 Minnesota, 9,, 96, was an application to the District Court
for a writ of prohibition to the probate court, the latter court
having granted a petition to set aside a sale of real estate confirmed by the probate court, and it was held by the Supreme
Court of the State that there was no jurisdiction in the probate
court, saying
"The want of jurisdiction in this case is still further emphasized by the fact that the administration has been closed by the
allowance of the administrator's accounts and his discharge,
and there is no attempt to reopen it. So long as it remains
closed the probate court has no more jurisdiction over the estate, or the property belonging to it, or which once belonged
to it, than if there never had been any administration and there
was no attempt to institute one. The jurisdiction of the court
has been fully exhausted, and it can do nothing further unless
it is restored in the manner pointed out in the statute."
In State ex rel. Dana v Probate Court of Ranmey County, 40
Minnesota, 296, 299, where, upon an application for the final
settlement of his accounts by the administrator of an estate
and for a final discharge, the probate court made an ordeiallowing the account and discharging the administrator, such
order was held by the Supreme Court to be -a final order discharging the administration of the estate, and that, as a final
decree discharging the administration, it operated to discharge
the lien of creditors upon real estate which might have been
previously sold to pay. debts. The opinion of the court was
thus expressed:
"The object of the application on the part of the acting administrator was to submit his final account and close the administration. The order made was evidently so intended, and must be

OCTOBER TERI.

1902.

Opmion of the Court.

construed as a final order discharging the administration of the
estate. The parties had their remedy by appeal, but the order
could not be attacked collaterally or treated as void, so as to
warrant subsequent proceedings to reach the real estate, as if
the administration was still in progress and the estate still un,settled.
"The omission of the land from the inventory, and the subsequent discovery of the real estate of the deceased which was
not reduced to assets by the administrator or distributed to the
heirs, do not operate to revive the administration and open the
judgment, or warrant further proceedings. The land descended
to the heirs, subject to the claims of administration upon it.
The effect of a decree assigning the real estate to the heirs is
simply to discharge it from the administration, and, of course,
the final discharge of the administration must discharge the lien
of the creditors."
In Schmzdt v Sta'k, 61 Minnesota, 91, 92, it was held that
where the estate of a deceased person has been fully administered, and a decree of distribution has been made, assigning the
residue of the estatb in the hands of the personal representative
to the parties entitled thereto, the jurisdiction of the probate
court is ended, and, if the personal representative does not 'deliver the property to the distributees, they may bring an action
against him in the District Court. It was said, per Mitchell, J "The probate code neither authorizes nor provides for an
assignment of any-part of the estate of a deceased person until
after the estate is fully administered. It contemplates but one
decree of distribution, by which the entire residue of the estate
shall be assigned to those entitled to it, specifying the proportion
or part to which each is entitled. Gen. Stats. 1894, secs. 46394642: Read in the.ligbt of the statute and of the admissions
of the answer, we think the complaint would fairly admit of
being construed as alleging that all this had been duly done,
and that the proportion of the estate assigned to plaintiff was
an undivided fifth. If this was the state of facts, the jurisdiction of the probate court over the property had ended. The
effect of a decree of distribution is to transfer the title to the
personalty and the right of possession of. the realty from the

SECURITY TRUST CO. v. BLACK RIVER NAT'L BK. 221
Opinion of the Court.

personal representative to the distributees, devisees or heirs.
The property then ceases to be the estate of the deceased person, and becomes the individual property of the distributees,
with the full right of control and possession, and with the
right of action for it against the personal representative if he
does not deliver it to them. If such an action is necessary,
resort must be had to some other forum, for the probate court
has no farther jurisdiction. .Hurley v Hamilton, 37 Minn.
160."
State ez rel. .atteson v. Probate Court of Ramsey County,
87 N. W Rep. 783, is the-last expression of the Supreme Court
of Minnesota on this subject to which we have been referred.
The syllabus, prepared by the court, is as follows
"1.The probate code of this State makes no provision for
the formal discharge of an administrator, but the necessary
legal effect of an order of the probate court allowing the final
account of the administrator and its final deciee of distribution, assigning the whole of the estate to the heirs and distributees, is to remove the estate of the deceased from the
jurisdiction of the court, and to render the office of administrator, which depends upon such jurisdiction, functus offlcw.
"2. After the estate has b een so settled and assigned, and
while the final decree of distribution remains unreversed and
unmodified, the probate court has no jurisdiction to entertain a
petition to issue a citation to the administrator requiring him
to further account for the property belonging to the estate
which is in his possession, or came into his possession."
The facts and law of the case were then stated in the opinion
of the court
"Sumner W Matteson, a resident of the county of Ramsey,
having real and personal property therein, died intestate on
July 22, 1895. The Security Trust Company was duly appointed by the probate court of such county, on September 3,
1895, administrator of his estate, and it duly qualified as such,
and duly filed in such court an inventory of such estate. The
probate court, on the same day, by its order, which was duly
published, limited the time for presenting claims against the
estate to six months from the date of the order. All claims

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

against the estate presented to the court within the time
limited and allowed by the court were paid by the administrator in the due course of administration. Thereafter, and on
March 31, 1896, the administrator filed with the court its
petition, representing that it had fully administered the estate,
paid all the debts against the estate allowed by the court, and
the expenses of administration, and asking for the allowance
of its final acount, and the distribution of the residue of
the estate to the persons entitled thereto. Such proceedings
were thereafter duly had upon the petition, that the court, on
April 27, 1896, allowed the final account" of the administrator,
and nmade and entered its decree of distribution of the residue
of the estate, describing it, and thereby assigned the property
therein described and all other estate of the intestate in the
State of Minnesota to his heirs and distributees, naming them,
and determining the share of each. Afterwards, and on
Nov.ember 21, 1896, the Security Trust Company filed with
the probate court its petition, representing that in drafting
such final decree certain clerical errors were made, stating
them, whereby certain parcels of real estate were erroneously
described therein, and other parcels omitted therefrom, and
praying that the decree be amended so as to correct the errors.
The court made its order so correcting the decree. Neither
the order allowing the administrator's account nor the final
decree of distribution has ever been opened or set aside. On
December 15, next following, all the heirs and distributees
named in the decree transferred and conveyed to the Matteson
estate, incorporated, all the property so assigned to them by
the fipal decree. But the Security Trust Company still has in
its possessibn and now holds certain stocks as collateral security under a pledge madeto it by the intestatefor the payment
of a-debt owed by him to it at the time of his death. The value
of the stocks exceeds-the amount of the debt which they secured.
No order has ever been made by the probate court in terms
discharging -the administrator. The Black River National
Bank, a non-resident creditor of the intestate, on January 4,
1897, made application to the probate court for leave to file its
claim against his estate, and have it allowed, and paid out of

SECURITY TRUST CO. t,.BLACK RIVER NAT'L BK.

223

Opinion of the Cour.

the assets of the estate. Tins was denied by the court for the
reason that the administration of the estate had been closed,

and the court had no further jurisdiction in the premises.
Afterwards the bank and another non-resident creditor each
brought an action on their respective claims, which had never
been presented to the probate court, against the Trust Company, -as administrator, in the Circuit Court of the United
States for the District of Minnesota. Such proceedings were
had therein that judgment, on April 1r, 1890, was rendered in
favor of the plaintiff in each case for the full amount claimed.
against the administrator. The court directed the judgments
to be certified to the probate court as claims duly established
against the estate of the intestate, and it was done, but the administrator refused to take any steps for the payment of either
of the judgments. Thereupon the relator herein presented to
the probate court a petition asking it to issue a citation to the
trust company, as such administrator, requiring it to file an
account of any property in its possession belonging to such
estate, and to report what disposition had been made ,9f the
property inventoried as belonging thereto, and to pay so much
of the judgments as could be paid from such property The
court refused to entertain the petition, or to make any order in
the premises, for the sole reason that it had no jurisdiction to
take other or further steps irr the administration of the estate.,
The relator then sued out of the District Court' for the county
of Ramsey an alternative writ of mandamus based upon the
facts here stated, which was directed to the probate court and
the judge thereof. The answer of the respondents was an admission of such facts, and upon them the District Court
awarded judgment denying a peremptory writ of mandamus,
and discharging the alternative writ. The relator appealed
from the judgment to this court.
"The question presented by these facts for our consideration
relates solely to the legal effect of the final decree of distribution, assigning the residue of the. estate of the decedent to the
heirs and distributees, made by the probate court after the settlement and allowance of the final account of the administrator.
Stated concretely, the question-is Did the jurisdiction of the

OCTO3ER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

probate court over the estate in question cease, and the office
of the administrator become functus officzo, by force of the order of the court allowing the administrator's final account, and
its final decree of distribution assigning the residue of the estate2 We answer the question in the affirmative. The jurisdiction of the probate court in Minnesota is not conferred by
the common law, nor by any statute of the State, but by our
constitution, and is limited to ' jurisdiction over the estates of
deceased persons and persons under guardianship.' Const.
art. 6, sec. 7. It follows that in cases where a court of probate
acquires jurisdiction over the estate of a particular decedent
such jurisdiction is ended, and the office of administrator, which
depends upon such jurisdiction, becomes functus offlaw whenever such estate passes by operation of law from its final control. No argument can make this obvious proposition clearer,
for it is self-evident that, if the jurisdiction is limited to the estate of such deceased person, and the sole basis of such jurisdiction, the estate passes from its control, and the right to
the possession and control thereof vests by 6perataon of law in
the heirs and distributees, it has no longer any jurisdiction
in the premises. It is true that our probate code contains no
provision for the formal discharge of an administrator, but the
necessary theory and effect of its provisions as to the settlement
of his account and the final decree of distribution, as interpreted
by the repeated decisions of this court, are to divest the probate court of further jurisdiction when such final decree is made,
and to render the office of administrator functus officmo, unless
such decree is set aside on motion, or reversed on appeal. A
clear illustration of this proposition is found in the decision of
this court in the case of Hurley v Ha i ton, 3.7 Minnesota, 160,
holding that the probate court had no jurisdiction to entertain
proceedings for the partition of the real estate of a decedent
among the heirs and devisees after the administration was closed,
and the land assigned to them in common by a final decree of
distribution, for the reason that, when such decree was entered,
the property passed out of the control of the court, and it had
no further jurisdiction."
The court then proceeded to cite and approve previous de-

SECURITY TRUST CO. v. BLACK RIVER NAT'L BK. 225
Opinion of the Cowt.

cisions, and particularly the language of Mitchell, J., in the case
of Schmdt v Stark, 61 Minnesota, 91, hereinbefore quoted.
Other observations were made by the court pertinent to the
case before us, as follows
"It is, however, urged by counsel for the relator that the removal of the property, that is, the estate, from the jurisdiction
of the probate court in nowise affects the continuance in office of
the administrator of an estate. To hold otherwise, it is claimed,
would be a divesting of the probate court of all authority to
execute its decree of distribution, leaving the administrator in
possession of the estate, and the heirs and distributees remediless. It necessarily follows from the concession of counsel, although notintended by him, that the office of administrator becomesfunctu8 offiw when the estate is removed, as a result of
the decree of distribution, from the jurisdiction of the courtfor
the office of administrator springs out of and depends for its
continued existence upon the jurisdiction of the court over the
estate. As well might it be claimed that the branch of a tree
can live and put forth its leaves and blossoms after its roots are
dead, as to claim that the office of administrator can survive the
jurisdiction of the court over the estate of which administration
was granted. It is not necessary for the probate court, if it
could do so, to retain jurisdiction to enforce its final decree of
distribution. The remedy of the distributees m case their respective shares of the residue of the estate are withheld from
them by the administrator is an action in the- District Court
against him or against him and his bondsmen. Schmdt v.
Stark, 61 innesota, 91, Gray, Probate Law, secs. 48, 628.
"It is further urged on behalf of the relator that neither the
probate court nor the administrator considered that the allowance of the final account and the entry of the decree of distribution ended the jurisdiction of the court, for it afterwards, on
the petitin of the administrator, amended such decr6e. It is
immaterial what they considered, for the view of either as to
the effect of the decree could not change its legal result. The
decree was corrected, not in the exercise of any jurisdiction over
the estate, but by virtue of the power of the court to -amend its
records to conform with the facts, that is to make the records
VOL. CLXXXVI-15

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

speak truly as to the past official acts of the court. Gen. Stat.
1894, sec. 4730.
"Lastly, it is urged by the relator that the administrator still
has certain stocks in its possession belonging to the estate, and
that it may also have after-discovered personal property of the
intestate which it has not disclosed to any one. There is no
basis for this assumption in the admitted facts, except that the
trust company holds certain stocks as collateral to secure its individual debt against the intestate. But, were it otherwise, the
fact still remains that all such stocks and after-discovered property, if any, passed by the decree to the heirs and distributees,
for it assigns to them, not only the property therein specifically
described, but also all other estate of the deceased in the State
of iMinnesdta. It follows that the probate court rightly declined to issue the citation."
Some criticism is made, in the brief of the defendant in error,
of the decision of the Supreme Court of Minnesota in this case,
that the issue was feigned and an imposition upon the Supreme
Court, and that the purpose of the decision was to forestall the
decision of this court.
If, indeed, the judgment of the Supreme Court in that case
were relied on as adjudging a case which had already passed
into judgment in the Circuit Court of the United States we
might readily agree, as urged by the defendant in error, that
the decision of the Supreme Court of Minnesota "should receive
little, if any, weight, by this court in the consideration of this
case." But that decision is cited and relied on by the plaintiff
in error, not as an adjudication of the facts in controversy here,
but as an interpretation of the statutes of the State. Cases may
be found where a decision made by a state Supreme Court,
even in exposition of state statutes, after the institution of litigation in a Federal court, wherein this court has refused to follow such a decision, if in it the state court has departed from
its previous decisions, which were in force and relied upon by
the Federal suitor Burgess v Seligman, 107 U S.20, 33, Caxrroll County V Smith, 111 U. S.556.
Here, however, the Supreme Court of. Minnesota, in its last
opinion, did not depart from or modify its previous decisions

SECURITY TRUST CO. v. BLACK RIVER NAT'L BK. 221
Opinion of the Court.

on the subject. On the contrary, it based its reasoning and
conclusions upon its frequent previous .decisions.
Nor are we permitted on the record in that case to impute
to the parties therein an attempt to mislead the dourt or to improperly invoke its jurisdiction. The case seems to have gone
before the probate court, the District Court and the Supreme
Court, in the usual course of procedure, and the decision finally
rendered by the Supreme Court must be received by us as a
valid exposition of the law
The conclusion to which we are brought, by an examination
of the statutes of the State of :Minnesota and of the decisions
of the courts of that State in construing and applying them, is,
that had a suit against-an administrator of an estate been brought
in the courts of that State, after the expiration of the period
limited by the order of the probate court, m which creditors
may present claims against the deceased for examination and
allowance, and after an allowance of the administrator's final
account, and a final decree of distribution, such suit could not
have been maintained.
We are now to consider whether such a suit can be successfully maintained in a Federal court by a non-resident owner of
a claim against the estate of a decedent.
Some general principles have become so well settled as to require only to be stated. One of these is that a foreign creditor
may establish his debt in the courts of the United States against
the personal representative of a decedent, notwithstanding the
fact that the laws of the State relative to the administration
and settlement of decedents 'estates do in terms limit' the right
to establish such demands to a proceeding in the probate courts
of the State. Urnon Ban, of Tennfessee v Jelly's Ad"'rs, 18
How 503, lawrence v Nelson, 143 U. S. 215, Byers v .MeAu~ey, 149 U S. 608.
Another principle, equally well settled, is that the courts of
the United States, in enforcing claims against executors and
administrators of a decedent's estate, are administering the laws
of the State of the domicile, and are bound by the same rules
that govern the local tribunals. Aspden v _Ariror,'4 How 467,
498.

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opmion of tho Court.

"The Circuit Courts of the United States, with full equity
powers, have jurisdiction over executors and administrators,
where the parties are citizens of different States, and will enforce the same rules in the adjustment of claims against them
that the local courts administer in favor of their own citizens."
Walker v Walker's E'r, 9 Wall. 743, 754.
In Yonley v Lave-nder, 21 Wall. 276, it was decided that
while a non-resident creditor may get a judgment in a Federal
court against a resident administrator, and come in on the estate according to the law of the State for such payment as that
law, marshalling the rights of creditors, awards to creditors of
his class, yet he cannot, because he has obtained a judgment in
a Federal court, issue execution and take precedence of other
creditors who have -no right to sue in the Federal courts, and
if he do issue executibn and sell lands, the sale is void.
The reasoning of this case is worthy of quotation
"The several States of the Union necessarily have full control over the estates of deceased persons within their respective
limits, and we see no ground on which the validity of the sale
in question can be sustained. To sustain it would be in effect
to nullify the administration laws of the State by giving to
creditors out of the State greater privileges in the distribution
of estates than creditors in the State enjoy It is easy to see,
if the non-resident creditor, by stung in the Federal courts of
Arkansas, acquireg a right to subject the assets of the estate to
seizure and sale for the satisfaction of his debt, which he could
not do by suing in the state court, that the whole estate, in case
there were foreign creditors, might be swept away Such a.
result would place the judgments of the Federal court on a
higher grade than the judgments of the state court, necessarily
produce conflict, and render the State powerless in a matter
over which she has confessedly full control. Besides this it
would give to the contract of a foreign creditor made in Arkansas a wider scope than a similar contract made in the same
State by the same debtor with a home creditor. The home
creditor would have to await the due course of administration
for the payment of his delkt, while the foreign creditor could,
as soon as he got his judgment, seize and sell the estate of his

SECURITY TRUST CO. v. BLACK RIVER NAT'L BK. 229
Opinion of the Court.

debtor to satisfy it, and this, too, when the laws of the State in
force when both contracts were made provided another mode
for the compulsory payment of the debt. Such a difference is
The admanifestly unjust and cannot be supported.
ministration laws of Arkansas are not merely rules of practice
for the courts, but laws limiting the rights of parties, and will
be observed by the Federal courts in the enforcement of indiIt is possible, though not probable,
vidual rights.
that state legislation on the subject of the estates of decedents
might be purposely framed so as to discriminate injuriously
against the creditor living outside of the State, but if this
should unfortunately ever happen the courts of the United
States would find a way, in a proper case, to arrest the discrimination, and to enforce equality of privileges among all
classes of claimants, even if the estate were seized by operation
of law and entrusted to a particular jurisdiction."
In .Vorgan v HMamlet, 113 U. S. 449, it was held that the
statute of Arkansas, that "all demands not exhibited to the
executor or administrator, as required by this act, before the
end of two years from the granting of letters, shall be forever
barred," begins, on thegranting of letters of administration, to
run against persons under age out of the State.
The doctrine of the case of Yonley v -Lavender,21 Wall.
276, was approved in Byers v. .AAzey, 149 U- S. 608,615,
wherein it was held that the administration laws of a State are
not merely rules of practice for the courts, but laws limiting
the rights of parties, to be observed by the Federal courts in the
enforcement of individual rights.
In Pulliam, v Pulliam, 10 Fed. Rep. 53, 78, the distinction
between ordinary statutes of limitation and statutes of administration of the estates of decedents limiting the time within
which creditors must prove their clains, is pointed out in the respect that the latter are rules of property as well as statutes of
limitation, and it was said by Hammond, J., after citing Upson
Bank v. Jolly's AdW's, 18 How 503, 504, Payne v Hook,
7 Wall. 425, 430, and other cases
"These cases, like many others, are only intended to protect
the judicial power of the United States from encroachment by

OCTOBER TERM. 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

preserving to it the remedies and forms of proceeding which
are granted with it, and not at all to set it above the legislative
control of the States in matters pertaining to their jurisdiction.
The. cases cited from the Supreme Court do not, in my judgment, establish or in the least authorize the doctrine that state
statutes, prescribing the time within which the creditor of a
decedent must present or sue upon his claim in order to entitle
him to share in the assets, and having the effect these do, are
not binding on this court."
In .Dodd v Ghm.elin, 27 Fed. Rep. 405, involving the administration of a decedent's estate, it was contended that
non-resident minors had a right to have the laws of the State
of Missouri regulating the matter disregarded in the Federalcourt, but it was held otherwise, per Brewer, J That the
law of the State providing for the settlement of a deceased
person's estate is binding upon the Federal as well as upon the
state courts.
In .liner v Aylesworth, 18 Fed. Rep. 199, it was held by
the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of
Rhode Island, as against non-resident complainan -that, under
the Rhode Island statute, no suit can be commenced against an
.administrator, as such, after three years from the time he gave
public notice of his appointment. Bauserman v Blunt, 147
U S.6417, 652.
Applying these principles to the present case, it would seem
clear that the defendant in error, as a citizen of the State
of New York, and having a legal claim against the estate of
S. W Matteson, deceased, had a right to elect to proceed
to establish it by bringing a suit in the Circuit Court of the
United States, and if he had brought his action against an
existing administrator, the administration of the estate not
having been closed under the statutory proceedings, and obtained a judgment, undoubtedly such a judgment, when presented to the probate court within the time fixed by its. order,
must have been received by that court as a claim against the
unadmimstered estate.
But can it be said that, if the foreign creditor delays proceedings in the Federal court .until after the time fixed by the

SECURITY TRUST CO. v. BLACK RIVER NAT'L BK. 231
Opinion of the Court.

order of the probate court for the presentment of claims had
expired and after the final distribution of the estate had been
effected, and after the final account of the administrator had
been allowed and his office had become funeus ojffcw, and
after all claims of local creditors had thus been precluded, he
can use the Federal process to devolve a new responsibility
upon the person who had acted as administrator, and to interfere with the rights of other parties, creditors or distributees,
which had become vested under the regular and orderly administration of the estate under the laws of the State2
It is the policy of the State of Minnesota, like that of many
of the States, to prescribe a shorter term of limitations to claims
against the estates of decedents than claims against living persons. Can that policy be defeated by a ruling of the Federal
courts that the provisions of the State in that regard do not
apply to parties bringing suit in those courts 9 In that event,
the very mischief pointed out and deprecated in Yonley v
Lavender would ensue, that "The rights of those interested in
the estate who are citizens of the State where the administration is conducted are materially changed, and. the limitation
which governs them.does not apply to the fortunate creditor
who happens to be a citizen of another State." The answer
given to such a proposition by this court in the case just cited
was "This cannot be so. The administration laws of Arkansas are not merely rules of practice for the courts, but laws limiting the rights of parties, and will be observdd by the Federal
courts in the enforcement of individual rights."
Let us now examine, the reasoning employed by the Circuit
Court of Appeals in reaching its conclusion in the present case.
Having correctly held that, so far as the administration law
of the State of Minnesota attempts to compel citizens of other
States to establish demands against the estates of decedents
only by a proceeding in the probate court of the State,,it is
ineffectual to accomplish that object, the court proceeded to
say
"-It is said, however, that although the statute in question
may be ineffectual to compel non-resident creditors to submit
their demands to the appropriate probate court for allowance,

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

yet, as a statute of limitations, it should be given effect to prevent the establishment of a demand in the Federal court of the
State after such lapse of time that it cannot be established in
the probate court. The vice of this argument, as applied to
the case in hand, consists in the fact that the legislature of the
State of Minnesota has not undertaken to bar any claim against
a decedent's estate, absolutely, until after the lapse of eighteen
months from the date of the order fixing the period of allowance, and in the case at bar that period had not expired when
the action was commenced, to wit, on January 22, 1897. It
is true that section 4509, when conferring the discretionary
power to allow claims within eighteen months, imposes the
limitation that they shall be allowed 'before final settlement,'
and it is also true that the final account of Matteson's administrator had been submitted to and approved by the probate
court before this action was commenced. But it must be borne
in mind that the administration law, section 4523, confers upon
the probate court the power to determine when the final settlement of an estate shall be made, and to allow as much as one
year and six months for that purpose. We think that the Federal court must be conceded the same power, as respects the
claim of a non-resident creditor, to allow it within eighteen
months, which is conferred upon the probate courts of the State,
and we are furthermore of opinion that the right of a non-resident creditor to sue for the establishment of his demand in the
Federal court cannot be made to depend on the length of time
that the probate court happens to allow for making a final settlement. If the Federal court gives effect to laws limiting the
period for establishing claims in the probate courts of the State,
which differ essentially from the general statute of limitations,
it should only be required to apply the absolute bar arising
from lapse of time which the legislature has erected. There
is much reason, perhaps, for saying that citizens of other States
ought not to be allowed to maintain an action in the Federal
court against a local administrator or executor after the expiratmon of a period when, by the express command of the legislature, no such action can be maintained in the local courts,
provided the period fixed by the legislature is reasonable, but

BLACK RIVER NAT'L BK. 233
SECURITY TRUST CO. w,.
Opinion of the Court.

the right of a-non-resident creditor to bring his action in the
national courts ought not to be conditioned or made to depend
upon the time that -a local court chances to approve a final
settlement, when the time of such"approval rests in its discretion, and is largely a matter of convenience. For these reasons; we conclude that the case in hand, the same having been
brought within less than eighteen months after the order fixing the period for the allowance of claims was made, was lawfully entertained by the trial court.
"Another claim which is interposed by the administrator as
a defence to this action is that the approval of its final account
and the order of distribution made thereon by the probate court
on April 27, 1896, closed the administration, and operated,
without more, as a discharge of the administrator, so that there
was in point of, fact no administrator when the suit at bar was
instituted. This view evidently was not entertained by the
probate court by which the administrator was appointed, since
the record discloses that that court, as late as November 21,
1896, entertained a petition on the part of the administrator,
and at its instance made an order, founded thereon, by which
the decree of April 27, 1896, was amended and corrected in
important respects. It is manifest that the probate court acted
upon the theory that it had not lost jurisdiction over the admnnistrator, that it was still subject to its orders as to all matters
pertaining to the estate, and would remain so until it had fully
executed its decree and was formally dischargeil as administrator
by an order made to that effect. And this assumption, on which
the probate court appears to have acted, in our opinion was
entirely correct. The order of distribution that was made on
April 27, 1896, required certain acts to be done and performed
by the trust company in its capacity as administrator, and until
they had been done and performed, and the court had approved
of the administrator's acts in that behalf, it was clearly subject
to the orders of the probate court, and its functions as administrator had not ceased. The view contended for by the administrator is entirely untenable, since it would deny-to the
probate courts of the State the right to enforce such orders
relative to the distribution of estates as they may see fit to

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

make, leaving administrators, when final settlements are approved, in full possession of all the property then in their hands,
and at liberty to deal with it as they please until they are called
to account by some other tribunal than that from which they
originally derived their authority We are satisfied, therefore,
that under the laws of the State of Minnesota the approval of
a final settlement, and an order of distribution made thereon,
does not operate forthwith to discharge the administrator, but
that its effect is to give the distributees a right to the possession
of the property that has been assigned to them and a right to
invoke the power of the probate court, as against the administrator, to compel obedience to its orders."
The validity of this reasoning depends, of course, upon the
correctness of the construction put by the learned court on
the state statutes, and, we as we have seen, in the cases cited,
the Supreme Court of the State has placed an altogether different meaning on those statutes. They hold that the probate
code of the State makes no provision for the formal discharge
of an administrator, but the necessary legal effect of an order
of the probate court, allowing the final account of the administrator and its final decree of distribution, assigmng the whole
of the estate to the heirs and distributees, is to remove the estate
of the deceased from the jurisdiction of the court, and to render
the office of administrator, which depends upon such jurisdiction, fundts oflew, and that, after the estate has been so settled and assigned, and while the final decree of distribution
remains unreversed and unmodified, the probate court has no
jurisdiction to entertain a petition to issue a citation to the administrator requiring him to further account for the property
belonging to the estate, which is in his possession, or came into
his possession.
Adopting, then, the construction put upon -the administration
laws of Minnesota, by the Supreme Court of the State, we have
only to consider the force of certain other suggestions of the
court below, which are, in some measure, independent of those
already considered.
It is argued, in the opinion of the Circuit Court of Appeals,
that, because section 4523 confers upon the probate court the

SECURITY TRUST CO. v. BLACK RIVER.NAT'L BK. 235
Opinion of the Cout.

power to determine when the final settlement of an estate shall
be made, and to allow as much as one year and six months for
that purpose, the Federal court must be conceded the same power
as respects the claim of a non-resident creditor, to allow it withinthe eighteen months, which is conferred upon the probate courts
of the State. This suggestion is manifestly based on a misconception of the language and legal purport of section 4523.
That language is as follows "The probate court at the time
of granting letters testamentary or of administration shall make
an order allowmg to the executor or administrator a reasonable time, not exceeding one year and six months, for the settlement of the estate."
So that, expressly the time for the settlement of the estate
must be fixed by the probate court at the time when the letters
of administration are granted, audit is provided, by the following section, that "the probate court may, upon good cause
shown by the executor or administrator, extend the time for
the settlement of the estate not exceeding one year at a time,
unless in the judgment of the court alonger time be necessary"
These sections have nothing to do with the limitation prescribed for the proof or presentation of the claims of creditors,
which is found in section 4509. M[oreover, in the present case,
the court having fixed the period of six months within which
the estate should be settled, the administrator, accordingly,
having no good cause to show to the contrary, filed his final account of the settlement of the estate within the time so limited,
and the account was allowed and the final decree of distribution
made before the institution of the present suit.
Section 4509 provides that, at the time of the granting letters
testamentary or of administration, the court shall make an order limiting the time in which creditors may present claims
against the deceased for eKamination and allowance, which
shall not be less than six months nor more than one year from
the date of such order, and that no claim or demand shall be
received after the expiration of the time so limited, unless, for
good cause shown, the court may, in its discretion, receive, hear
and allow such claim upon notice to the executor or administrator.

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opimon of the Court.

But it should be observed that such power to extend the time
limit must be exercised, on good cause shown, "before final
settlement," and, in the present case, no such good cause was
shown, either to the probate court or to the Circuit Court of the
United States, before final settlement. It is evident that the
discretion to extend the time for proof of claims was to be appealed to for some good reason, that is, reason showing why the
claim was not made or the suit brought before the expiration of
the -time fixed in the original order.
The Circuit Court of Appeals admits that "there is much
reason for saying that citizens of other States ought not to be
allowed to maintain an action in the Federal court against a
local executor or administrator after the expiration of a period
when, by the express command of the legislature, no such action
can be maintained in the local courts, provided the period fixed
by the legislature is reasonable, but the right of a non-resident
creditor to bring his action in the national courts ought not to
be conditioned or made to depend upon the time that a local
court chances to approve a final settlement when the time of
such approval rests in its discretion and is largely a matter of
convenience." But the legislation of Minnesota does not make
the limit within which claims must be made against the estates
of decedents to depend on the exercise of discretionary power
by the courts. It does provide that the probate court shall fix
a time within which chums must be presented, to wit, not less
than six nor more than eighteen months. Between those limits
of six and eiglhteen months the probate court may have power
of discretionary action on good cause shown. But having once
exercised that power, as in the present case, by fixing the term
of probation at six months, any extension of that term could
only be had, upon good cause shown, "before final settlement."
We are not called upon, by the facts of thb present case, to
determine whether a Federal court might or might not, on good
cause shown, extend the time in whmch a claim might be asserted
against a decedent's estate beyond the term previously fixed by
the probate court. But it is sufficient to say that, in the present
case, no application was made to the Federal court to exercise
such a power, either before or after the limitation prescribed

SECURITY TRUST CO. r,. DENT.
Syllabus.

under the state statute had expired. All that was before the
Circuit Court of the United States was an action at law upon a
cause of action against a decedent's estate, which, under the
laws of the State of Minnesota, could not be maintained in the
courts of that.State, because barred by the operation of the laws
of the State regulating the administration of the estates of deceased persons. Moreover, it is obvious, and it has always been
held, that the Circuit Court cannot, in the trial of an action at
law, exercise the power of a court of equity An application
to the Federal court to decree an extension of tine beyond the
period previously prescribed .by the probate court would have
to be made by a bill in equity, showing good cause. Scott v
Ar1m8trong, 146 U. S. 499.
Following our previous and repeated decisions, that- the courts
of the United States, when exercising jurisdiction over executors
and administrators of the estates of decedents within a State,
are administering the laws of that State, and are bound by the
same rules which govern the local tribunals, we conclude, in
the present case, that
The'judgment of the Circuit Court qf ppeals.9nust be 'eversed, thejudgment qf tihe Circuit Court zs also r'eversed,
and the cause -isremanded to that court,:with directwns to
enter judgment sn conformity with the opjrn'on of th's
court.

SECURITY TRUST COMPANY v. DENT.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE EIGHTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 42. Argued April 21, 22, 1902.-Decided December 1, 1902.

Where a case is originally brought to this court by writ of error, but it appears that the proper course was to have brought the final judgment of
the Circuit Court of Appeals for review by writ of certiorari, this court
under the powers given by the judiciary act of March 3, 1891, may allow a writ of certiorari and direct that the copy of the record heretofore
filed under the writ of error be taken and deemed as a sufficient return
to the certiorari.

