OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Syllabus.

considered, and the decision of the state courts of New York
were called to its attention and cited m its opimon. The court
held that notice is required by that statute only as a basis for
declarinZ a forfeiture or lapse of a policy for non-payment of
premium or interest, and that the law had no application, because
it was a non-forfeitable policy of term insurance, which had expired by limitation before the insured died. Whether the Supreme Court of Iowa was correct in its construction of the
applicability of the New York notice statute to this-policy was
immaterial, since it did not deny the full faith and credit due
to the New York law, but construed it as not applying to the
policy in tis case. The case is covered by that of Banholzer
v New York Life Insurance Co., 178 U. S. 402, and in principle by Glenn v Garth, 147 U. S. 360, Lloyd v .Aatthews, 155
U S. 222. To hold otherwise would render it possible to bring
to this court every case wherein the defeated party claimed
that the statute of another State had been construed to his detriment.
The validity of the New York statute was not called in question. The case turned upon its construction. This was not a
Federal question. Conmermal Bank v Buckngham, 5 How.
317, Baltimore &o. R. .R. Co. v .opk,&ns, 130 U. S. 210.
The writ of error is
Lksmsed.
MRIE. JUsTICE WHITE and

MR. JUSTICE XcKENNA dissented.

DOWNS v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT- COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE FOURTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 318. Argued October 29,1902.-Decided January 5,1903.

When a tax is imposed upon all sugar produced, but is remitted upon all
sugar exported, then, by whatever process or in whatever manner or
under whatever name it is disguised, it is a bounty upon exportation.
As under the laws and regulations of Russia, the Russian exporter of

DOWNS v. UNITED STATES.
Argument for .Petitioner.
sugar obtains from his government a certificate solely because of suchexportation, which certificate is salable and has an actual value in the
open market, the government of-Russia does secure to the exporter
from that country, as the inevitable result of such action, a money reward or gratuity whenever he exports sugar from Russia, and which is
in effect a bounty upon the export of sugar which subjects such sugar,
upon its importation into the United States, to an additional dut~y equal
to the entire amount of. such boufity under the act of Congress of
July 24, 1897, 30 Stat. -205.

TIs was a writ of certiorari to review.a decree of the Cir-

cuit Court of Appeals, affirming a decree of the Circuit Court
for the District of Maryland, which itself affirmed the action
of the board of general appraasers, holding a cargo of refined
sugar imported into Baltimore from Russia subject .to a countervailing duty leviable upon merchandise upon which a bounty
is paid upon exportation.
The proceedings were instituted by a petition filed in the
Circuit Court setting up the importation of sugar on the steamship Assyria, July 6, 1899, the imposition of a countervailing
duty by the collector of customs at Baltimore, and the payment
of the same under protest, and the fact that the decision of
the collector had been affirmed by the board of general appraisers. The grounds stated in the petition for a review are,
generally, that the country from which the sugar was exported
did not pay or bestow, directly or indirectly, any bounty or
grant upon the exportation of said sugar.
The return of the general appraisers contained a copy of the
proceedings before them, including a copy of the Russian law
and regulations, a stipulation of facts, a copy of certain reports
from the United States consul at Odessa, and their opinion
overruling the protest, and affirming the decision of the collector. The Circuit Court affirmed the action of the general
appraisers, and upon appeal to .the Circuit Court of Appeals
that court -inturn affirmed the decree of the Circuit Court.
113 Fed. Rep. 144.
Mr&.Dw'eat A. Bigelow on behalf of petitioner supported the
contention that no bounty or grant was paid or bestowed by
the Russian government upon the exportation of the consignVOL. OLxxxvli-32

OCIOBER TERM, 1902.
Argumenz for Petitioner.

ment of sugar' involved in the action. The Russian sugar law
is not a covert scheme to pay concealed bounties on exportation, but the genuine effort of a paternalistic government to
wrest the control of the trade from a pernicious sugar ring
and to regulate the industry m the interest of producer and
consumer alike.
.Section five of the tariff act of 1897 (in full in opimon, p. 501
post), applies only to bounties on exportation and is distinguished
from bounties on production,.. Allen v Smith, 173 U. S. 402.
By specifying only bounties upon exportation, ongress must
have intended to ezclude bounties on productioa from the operation of section five, and unless the bounty alleged to be paid by
the Russian government be conditioned solely on exportation,
and in such, fashion that theexporter gets it and the non-exporter
does not, .unless, in other words, 'the exporter is placed in a
better position than if he had not exported, then the bounty is
not a true bounty on exportation, and section.five can have no
application thereto. The purchase price of the "free sugar" .
export certificate is not a bounty on exportation; and merely liquidating.the value of the right cannot convert that into a bounty
on .exportati6n which was not one before. The enhanced
prices secured to manufacturers by the operation of a high protective tariff constitute a virtual bounty onproduetion. Alexander Hamilton's Report on Manufactures, United States v.
Realty Co., 136 U. S.427, 434, Colder v Henderson,54: Fed.
Rep. 802, 803, Lord Pirbright, P C., Prest. of Sugar Conferenc e of 1888, in Empire Review for April, 1902, p. 264. The
question is not whether protective duties are indirect bounties,
but whether Congress intended to include them within the scope
of section five, and it is plain that Congress could not have had
any such intention. The action of the Russian government in
'further limiting the market to a portion only of the product distinguishes the system in degree, but not in principle, from the
American system. The wording of the section excludes the
theory that Congress intended to include therein the "virtual
bounties" resulting from the operation of protective tariffs or
other artificial limitations of the home market.
The Russian law does not, either directly or indirectly, re-

DOWNS v. UNITED STATES.
Argument for Respondent.

quire the manufacturer fo export any portion of his sugar as a
condition precedent to selling the balance m the home market,
but on the contrary invites him not to do so but to carry over
his surplus into the next campaign. This disposes of all arguments based on a supposed obligation to export in order to obtain the benefit of the artificially high prices in the home market.
The Brussels Sugar Conference decided, not -that Russia paid a
bounty on exportation, but that the artificially high prices ensured on the home market by the high protective tariff acted as
virtual bounties on production, enabling the manufacturer to
endure losses abroad. If such conclusions are to be adopted the
United States is the greatest bounty paying country in the
world. Congress never intended the words "bounty or grant"
as used in section five to have any such extreme application.
The remission of excisel taxes on the exportation of sugar is
not a bounty or grant on exportation as the terms' are used in
section five. If the question is one in doubt, the doubt must
be resolved in favor of the importer "as duties are never imposed on citizens upon vague or doubtful ,interpretation."
Hartranftv Wiegmann, 12-1 U. S. 609, 616, A.dms v. Bancroft,..3 Sumner, 38.
.M; As8ustant A tmwey "GeneraZHoyt, for the United States,
respondent.
The single question involved is whether a bounty was bestowed by Russia on the exportation of the sugar. The point
of jurisdiction which might be urged in favor of exclusive executive authority to determine the question appears to have
been waived by the Secretary of the Treasury having voluntarily submitted the matter to the judicial determination of the
Board of General Appraisers and the coufts. The only other
case under this law is Hills v United &ates, 99 Fed. Rep. 425,
on appeal, 107 Fed. Rep. 107, which decided that the practical
effect of the Dutch law is to make the remission of the Excise
Tax from the standpoint of other countries a bounty on exportation.
The Russian government desires to maintain prices, and
therefore limits the output on the domestic market. It also

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opimon of the Court.

desires to stimulate production, and for this purpose puts a
premium on exportation. ,It is neither necessary nor proper to
suggest a covert purpose to bestow a bounty by seelkng a covert
method, but the Russian attitude offers some excuse for such
a suggestion. It is enough to establish that the premium on
exportation, the indirect bounty, is the necessary effect and result of the scheme. The grant as a governmental allowance is
shown by the complete control of the government over it. The
government reserves the right to suspend the remission of
excise in order to guard against the effect of such a rise of
prices in the rest of Europe as might cause an abnormal domestic over-production. One highly significant feature in the
arrangement is the cession or transfer of free sugar from one
mill to another in order to facilitate exportation, which transfer carries a consideration to the producer who cedes his home
market right; and constitutes the concrete evidence of the premium or indirect bounty on exportation. Hartranft v. Wiegmann, 121 U S. 609, distinguished, but see Henderson v The
.Afayor, 92 U. S. 259, 268, as to the doctrine of reasonable interpretation. This court does not accept a foreign renssion of
internal tax as conclusive upon its effect with respect to our
own laws. United States v Passavant, 169 U. S. 16. The
Russian scheme carried out under their sugar law and regulations clearly amounts to the paying or bestowing indirectly of
a bounty or grant upon the exportation of sugar which propprly subjects the merchandise upon importation into this country
to the countervailing duty presented by section five of the tariff
act of 1897.
M . JusTrICE BRowN, after making the foregoing staterAent,
delivered the opinion of the court.

This case involves the single question whether, under the
laws and regulations of Russia, a bounty is allowed upon the
export of sugar which subjects such sugar, upon its importa:
tion into the United States, to an additional duty equal to the
entire amount of such bounty, under the act of Congiess of
July 24, 1897, 30 Stat. 205, which reads as follows:

DOWNS v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

-

cSEc. 5. That whenever any country, dependency, or colony
shall pay or bestow, directly or indirectly, any bounty or grant
upon the exportation of any article or merchandise from such
country, dependency, or colony, and such article or merchandise isdutiable under the provisions of this act, then upon the
importation of any such article or merchandise into the United
States, whether the same shall be imported directly from the
country of production or otherwise, and whether such article
or merchandise is imported in the same condition as when exported from the country of production or has been changed in
condition by remanufacture or otherwise, there shall be levied
and paid, m all such cases, in addition to the duties otherwise
imposed by this act, an additional duty equal to the net amount
of such bounty or grant, however the same be paid or bestowed.
The net amount of all such bounties or grants shall be from
time to time ascertained, determined, and declared by the
Secretary of the Treasury, who shall make all needful regulations for the identification of such articles and merchandise
and.for the assessment and collection of such additional duties."
A bounty is defined by Webster as "a premium offered or
given to induce men to enlist into the public service, or to encourage any branch of industry, as husbandry or manufactures."
And by Bouvier, as "an additional benefit conferred upon or a
compensatibn paid to a class of persons." In a conference of
representatives of the principal European powers, specially convened at Brussels in 1898 for the purpose of considering the
question of sugar bounties, the definition of 'bounty was examined by the conference sitting m committee, who made the following report
."The conference, while reserving the question of mitigations
qnd provisional disposition that may be authorized, if need be
by reason of exceptional situations, is of opinion that bounties
whose abolition is desirable, are understood to be all the advantages conceded to manufacturers and refiners by the fiscal legislation of the States, and that, directly or indirectly, are borne
by the public treasury
"There should be classified as such, notably:
"(a) The direct advailtages granted in case,of exportation.

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

"(b) The direct advantages granted to production.
"(o) The total or partial exemptions from taxation granted
to a portion of the manufactured products.
"(d) The indirect advantages growing out of surplus or allowance in manufacturing effected beyond the legal estimates.
"(e) The profit that may be derived from an excessive drawback.
"In addition, the conference is of opinion that advantages
.similar to those resulting froni the bounties hereinbefore defined
may be derived from the disproportion between the rate of customs duties and that of consumption dues (surtaxes), especially
when the public powers impose, incite or encourage combinations among sugar producers.
"It would be desirable to regulate surtaxes in such manner as to confine their operation to the protection of home
markets."
A. bounty may be direct, as where a certain amount is paid
upon the production or exportation of particular articles, of
which the act of Congress of 1890, allowing a bounty upon the
production of sugar, and Rev Stat. sections 3015-3027, allowing a drawback upon certain articles exported, are examples,
or indirect, by the remission of taxes upon the exportation of
articles which are subjected to a tax when sold or-consumed in
the country of their production, of which our laws, permitting
distillers of spirits to export the same without payment of an
internal revenue tax or other burden, is an example. United
tates v. Passavant, 169 U. S. 16.
The laws of Russia, regulating the production and exportation of sugar, are very complicated, not easily understood, and
too long to justify their full incorporation in this opinion.
Such, however, as bear upon the question of bounty are reproduced from a translation of the Russian law of Kovenher 20,1895, and regulations thereunder, the accuracy of which is
stipulated by the parties, together with certain statements also
stipulated to be read as evidence.
The objects of the Russian law are stated in the words of a
recent note delivered to the representatives of the powers at
St. Petersburg, as follows " The Russian government only

DOWNS v. UNITED STATES.
Opimon of the Court.

regulates the distribution of sugar on its home market, its purpose being, on the one hand, to antagonize over-production of
sugar, and on the other, gradually to bring about lower prices
and greater consumption for that product in this country It
pr6tects home consumption against rises m the prices, and production against sudden and considerable falls." Counsel for
petitioner insists that'the chief object of the government is to
prevent, or at least to discourage, over-production with its attendant evils, and, to accomplish this, the law penalizes overproduction by imposing thereon double the regular excise tax.
From the stipulation of facts it appears that at the opening
of each sugar campaign a committee of mimsters, upon a report of the Minister of Finance"(1.) Estimates the total consumption and the total production of sugar, and the total amount which may be put upon
the market at the normal excise of one and three fourths
roubles (a current rouble being equal to about fifty-one cents)
per pood (of t.hnrty-six pounds) is definitely fixed at the total
amount required "for consumption." (This excise amounts to
about two and a half cents per pound.) " This is known as
free sugar."
"(2.) The first .sixty thousand poods produced by each
factory is free sugar. The balance of the production is divided
into free sugar, obligatory reserve and free surplus or free
reserve."
"(3.) The amount of free sugar in each factory is proportioned to its total production, as the estimated consumption is
to the total production of the country This percentage is
fixed by the government according to the estimates of production and consumption."
For instance, if the ministers estimate the home consumption
at thirty-five million poods, and the probable production at
fifty million poods, 35-50 of the daily production of each factory will be set apart .as "free sugar" by the inspector, and
15-50 (less a certain portion of "indivertible reserve") will be
set apart as surplus.
"(4.) Under the Russian law therefore all sugar is divided
into the three following classes

OCTOBER- TERAI, 1902.
Opinion of'the Court.

"a. '_Free sugar,' winch. consists of a certain quantity of
sugar which the Russian government. permits a factory or refinery to sell for home consumption under an excise tax of
1.75 roubles per pood."
"b. An ' obligatory or indivertible reserve' of sugar, which
consists of a certain quantity kept at each factory or refinery
by order of the government and which may not be sold or removed without the special permission of the government."
The object of this reserve is to enable the Minister of Finance,
in case the price in the home market-exceeds the price fixed as
a maximum, to authorize the issue of sugar from this reserve
upon payment of the usual tax in quantities sufficient to bring
about a reduction in -prices.
". 'Free reserve or free surplus,' which consists of - sugar
as is manufactured over and above the quantity of ' free sugar'
and 'obligatory or indivertible reserve;' This-.sugar cannotbe sold for home consumption except upon payment of the
regular tax of 1.75 roubles and an additional tax of 1:15 roubles,
or 3.50 roubles in all."
The Rfssian government also fixes and determines (a)-the
total quantity of sdgar required for home consumption from
all the factories and refineries, that is, free sugar, (b) the quantity of sugar to be kept by each factory as an obligatory- reserve, (o) the maximum of prices during the prevalence whereof
such reserve .must, remain intact in the factories, as well as the
conditions under which the sugar in reserve can be put on the
market.
2. The quantity of sugar produced in excess of the amount
for home consumption (free sugar) is considered as an excess of
production, and when sold is subject to a double tax.
3. This excess is distributed among the factories in proportion to the quantity of sugar produced by each of them over
and above sixty thousand poods.
4. The obligatory reserve of sugar to be kept by-each factory
is derived and completed from the quantity of sugar in excess
of the normal quantity, by taking from such excess the necessary percentage to constitute the prescribed reserve.
5. Sugar in e~cess of the normal production cannot be put

DOWNS v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

on the home market otherwise than upon payment of an additional tax, the normal tax being payable according to the general regulation. However, it is .allowed to the manufacturers
to keep this excess of sugar as free reserve, and in such case,
'so long as the sugar does not leave the factory, they are not
required to pay either the additional or regular excise.
6. The sugar in the obligatory reserve is not liable to the
payment of tax uitil it is withdrawn by permission under the
conditions indicated in section 7.
"'i7. In cases where the prices in the home market exceed
the normal prices fixed, the Minister of Finance authorizes the
issuance of sugar from the obligatory reserve and from the
free reserve (if necessary) in sufficient quantities to cause a
decrease of price without payment of the additional tax, but
with payment of the normal excise."
"18. In case of loss without the fault of the manufacturer,
of sugar comprised in the obligatory or free reserve, the Minister of Finance is authorized, to strike the lost sugar from the
factory's account, without exacting the excise and additional
tax charged against it."
"9. Upon the exportation from the factories of the excess
of sugar the same is exempted from the excise and additional
tax in full measure."
For the purpose of insuring to the doirestic manufucturer a
profitable home market the Russian qovernment imposes a duty
of three roubles per pood (practically prohibitive) upon imported sugar. Upon the other hand, and to insure to the consumer a reasonable price, it fixes a maximum price, during the
prevalence of which the obligatory reserve must remain intact. This reserve is set aside from the production of each
mill, so that when the prices in the home market rise beyond
the maximum fixed, the Minister of Finance authorizes the sale
of sugar from the obligatory reserve, and from the free reserve if necessary, in sufficient quantities to reduce the price,
upon payment only of the normal excise. The amount of free
sugar to which each factory is entitled is determined by the
ministry upon the basis of the probable national consumption
and the probable- production, the product of every factory be-

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

ing divided according to the ratio between these estimates.
Each manufacturer can sell his quota of free sugar upon the
home-market upon the payment of the normal excise of 1.75
roubles per pood. He can only place his surplus upon the
home market by paying a double excise, but he may leave it in
the mill where it is, not subject to the tax, or he may have it
transferred to the production account of the next campaign,
where it will serve hin to increase the amount on which his
percentage of free sugar is estimated , or he may export it free
from excise. The last alternative is the one usually adopted.
It frequently happens, however, that a manufacturer located
-near a seaport town is unable to find a market for his free
sugar at home, but by a remission of the excise may export
his sugar-to some foreign country at.a profit, while the manu.facturer in an interior town may be able to dispose of a much
larger amount of "free sugar" than he is entitled to put upon
the market, but is located too far from the seaboard to export
at a profit. As the government is interested only in the amount
of free sugar produced, and not.m the particular person producing it-the allotment to each factory being merely to do
equal justice-to all-it permits the seaboard manufacturer to export his free sugar without tax, and to assign his right to the interior manufacturer to sell as much additional free sugar as is
represented by the amount exported or convert his "surplus"
into "free sugar," thus saving the additional tax.
The method by which this assignment is effected is shown
by the following regulations of the government "on transfers
of free sugar from one mill to another in order to facilitate the
exportation of the surpluses to foreign countries"
"SE . 39. A manufacturer may cede to another manufacturer his right to place on the home market free, z. e., without the
payment of an additional tax, his alloted irota of sugar.
"SEC. 40. In relation to such cession thi following rules may
be observed
"(1) The manufacturer who assigns to another manufacturer
his right to dispose of a certain quantity of sugar free must
give notice thereof to the local excise board, which first orders
to be held at the mill a quantity of free sugar equal to that

DOWNS v. UNITED STATES.
Opimon of the Court.

about to be assigned, and immediately thereupon duly communicates with the excise board having jurisdiction of the mill

in whose favor the assignment is being made.
"(2.) If the assignment is accepted by the latter mill, the
quantity of free sugar in said mill is correspondingly increased
by transfer from the free surplus (not from the indivertible reserve.), of which a memorandum is made by the excise officers
in charge, thereupon the excise board, from which the commumication in relation to the assignment of free sugar has been
received, is notified of the acceptance of said assignment.
"(3.) Upon receipt of the notification that the assignment
has actually been accepted, the quantity of ' free sugar' at the
factory by which the assignment has been made is correspondingly reduced by transferring the same into the free surplus (or
free reserve),.of which a memorandum is made by the excise
officer in charge.
"(4.) The reduction of the quantity of free sugar at one mill
and the increase thereof by assignment at another mill are entered in the proper books of the mill."
It thus appears that, by a series of book entries carried on
under the direction of the local excise board having jurisdiction
of the mill of the assignor, and the corresponding board having
jurisdiction over the mill of the assignee, and without any actual
transfer of sugar from one mill to the. other, or the issue of a
certificate, the "surplus" sugar of the assignee manufacturer is
converted into "free sugar," which he can sell at the normal
excise, and the "free sugar" of the assignor manufacturer has
become "surplus," which he can place on the home market by
paying the double tax, (practically prohibitory) leave in the
mill where it is not subject to the tax, have transferred to the
production accouiit of the next year, or export to a foreign
country
Should the assignor manufacturer deem it best to adopt the
last alternative of exporting, he will obtain in a foreign market
a price somewhat less than he would have obtained had he sold
-his sugar a free in the local market. Hence, the consideration
which the interior manufacturer must pay to induce the other
to transfer his rights to free sugar to him, is measured. by the

OCTOBER TERM, 1902:
Opimon of the Court.

difference between the home market price and that prevailing
in the foreign market. With regard to this, we quote from the
report of the American consul appearing in the record
"As the first and second methods of disposing of his sugar
(by selling under the double tpx or exporting) are less advantageous than placing the article on the home market as free
sugar, the manufacturer who ceded his right received from the
manufacturer ywho acquired the right the price per pood agreed
upon between them, which is usually determined by the differences existing at the moment between the price obtainable for
the sugar on the'home market and the price obtainable by sale
abroad. This is what is termed a transfer Dependent upon
the fluctuations in the price of sand sugar in Russia and abroad,
the price for these transfers also varies, therefore, the person
who sells or transfers the right of issue m the home market,
charges several copecks more than the difference mentioned
above. This is done on account of the risk that is taken that
sugar prices abroad may fall, and also for the trouble involved in
exporting,,etc. Example The price of sand'sugar at a station
in the sofithwestern region (a) for the home market, Rs. 4.25
per pood, or withodt excise Rs. 2.50, (b)
for abroad, Rs. 1.25.
Consequently the difference of value of transfer is Rs. 1.25,
but in that case, for the reasons given, Rs. 1.28 to 1.30 is paid
for the transfer."
While it is true that this transfer of the right of issuing free
sugar does not involve as a condition thereto the export of any
sugar whatever, the only condition being that the assignor's
free sugar shall diminish pam passu with the increase of the
assignee's, yet, as a matter of practice, the object of making
such transfer appears to be to increase the amount which the
assignor may export, although he may, as a matter of fact,
find it more profitable to leave his surplus in the mill to be
transferred to the production account of the following year.
If his factory be located far inland, he will be likely to do this,
while if he be near a seaport town, he will probably prefer to
export his surplus, even at the lower prices obtainable abroad.
Provision is made for tho manner of exporting sugar to foreign countries by the following regulations, the first of which

DOWNS v. UNITED STATES.
Opimon of the Court.

(section 37) applies to free sugar, and the second of which
(section 38) applies to the free surplus
"I.-On the .Manner qf Exporting Sugar to -ForezgnCountmes.
"SEc. 37. ]ir'ee sugar, exempt from the additional tax, may
be exported to foreign countries in compliance with the rules
heretofore existing, the exportation of such sugar requires,
however, a permit from the excise office, which must be duly
endorsed on the bill of lading, as set forth in sections 31 and 34
of these instructions.
"NoTm.-The mill owner is allowed to export free sugar
(this rule does not apply to purchased sand or refined sugar
produced from purchased sands) on- account of his surplus for
the same campaign. For this purpose the export is made in
the manner hereinafter, in subdivisions 1 to 4 of section 38,
set forth, except that the excise office notes on the certificate
'free sugar,' and requires no security for the additional tax.
Upon the return of the certificate with the custom-house export mark, .the excise office credits the exported quantity of
sugar to the free surplus of the mill, if such there be, and increases by a like quantity the allowance of free sugar, of which
a memorandum and an entry in the book must be made.
"Src. 38. In relation to exports of the free surplus (free reserve) of sugar from the mills, the following special order must
be observed, in addition to the rules now m force.
"(1) The transport of sugar from the free reserves intended
for export to foreign countries must be shipped in the presence
of the excise authorities, who, after examing the transport,
endorse on the bill of lading accompanying the same that said
sugar has been removed from the free reserve for -exportation
abroad, and issue a separate certificate to the mill owner, setting
forth the name of the mill, the bill of lading accompanying the
transportation, and the statement of the weight of the sugar
contained therein.
"(2) The additionaltax, at the rate of roubles 1.75 per pood,
chargeable to the exported sugar, must first be secured in full
by cash, excise credit vouchers, or such funds as are accepted
as security for the tobacco excise, or by the stock of sugar, free

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opimon of the Court.

or of the free reserve, on hand in the factory, as set forth in
section 30 of these instructions. (The 75 kopeck portion of the
excise due on exported sugar is to be paid or secured in accordance with the rules now in force.)
"(3) The custom-house duly examines the exported shipment
of the free surplus, the tare previously certified by the excise
office being accepted at its actual weight as per bill of lading
annexed to the export certificate. After forwarding the transport across the border, the custom-house delivers to the shipper,
m lieu of refunding the excise, (not the additionaltax, however,)
a voucher creditiig the same on his sugar excise account, and
marks down by endorsement on the certificate of the excise
-office presented by him (subdivision 1) the time of export, the
net weight of the exported sugar, and the credit voucher issued
stating the amount of excise allowed.
"(4) The certificate with the endorsement of the custom-house
must be returned by the mill owner to the excise office within
six months from the date the sugar was shipped from the mill,
whereupon the additzonal tax charged upon the exported sugar
is remitted by the excise office, by d corresponding credit in
proportion to the quantity of sugar exported, and the deposits
securing the same arereleased. If the certificate is not returned
within said time, or does not account for the full -quantity of
sugar which was to have been exported, then, upon the failure
of the.mill owner to pay within .two weeks the additional tax
due, the excise office must proceed with the collection thereof
in regular manner."
It thus appears that free -sugar,which may be sold in Russia,
at the normal excise of R. 1.75 per pood, may be exported under
a permit from the excise office, and upou the return of the free
sugar certificate with the custom-house export ilark, the excise
office creditg.the exported quantity of sugar to the free surplus
of the mill. (With the free surplus, however, which is subject
not only to the normal excise of R. 1.75 per pood, but to an
additional tax of the same amount, a somewhat different course
is pursued. The additsonal tax chargeable to the exported
sugar must first be secured in full cash or its equivalent, and
an export certificate delivered, whinh must be returned by. the

DOWNS v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

mill owner to the excise office within six months, whereupon
the additional tax is remitted by the excise office by a corre-:
sponding credit in proportion to the quantity of sugar exported.
For the n-omal excise, a voucher crediting the same on the
sugar excise account is delivered, as in the case of free sugar.
The following facts were stipulated -

"5. That the sugar -which was imported in this case, and
which is covered by this protest, consists of free sugar as above
defined, and would have been subject to an excise tax of 1.15
roubles per pood if sold in Russia."
"6. That upon the exportation of said sugar from -Russia
the Russian government, under its laws. and regulations, -released said sugar from said. tax of 1275 roubles either by a refund of the tax or a cancellation of the indebtedness, or otherwise."
"7. That in addition to remitting said exclse tax the government issued to the exporter a certificate certifying that he
had exported such a quantity of so-called free sugar, that the
said certificates have a substantial market value, and are transferable, a-d that the price thereof is usually determined.by the
difference existing at the time between the price obtainable for
sugar on the home market and price abroad."
8. That said certificates are sold to and used 'by sugar manufacturers or refiners, who are thereby enabled to transfer from
their "free reserve," or "free surplus," to. their "free sugar "1
an amount of sugar equal to the amount shown by said-certificates to have been exported, which amount may then be
sold for domestic consumption on paying the ordinary tax of
1.75 roubles per pood (to which free sugar is xegularly subject)
instead of a tax of 3.50 roubles per pooa.
This appears to be the real function of the free sugar export
certificate-to' obtain a transfer of sugar from "surplus" .to
"free sugar" account. This free sugar export certificate being
negotiable, any holder of the same is at liberty to call for the
transfer of a like amount of sugar from surplus to free sugar
account; and is thereby enabled, to put his sugar upon. the
market at the normal excise instead of thdouble tax imposed
upon surplus.

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

By this arrangement neither the total amount of free sugar
allowed to the two manufacturers nor the total export has been
increased, since what the assignor exports the assignee sells as
free sugar. The assignee, however, has secured the large profits
of the sale of his sugar at home and saved his freight to
the coast, while on the other hand the seaport merchant has
sacrificed those profits by exporting his sugar at a less remunerative price. It follows that the price which the seaport
manufacturer receives for his export certificate is the difference between what he would have received had he sold his
free sugar at home and the price he would have obtained on
the foreign market. For instance, if the price in the home
market is R. 2.50 per pood, and in the foreign market R. 1.25,
the certificate will be worth the difference between these two,
and the exporter will receive the same gross amount as if he
had not exported his free sugar, but had sold in the home
market. Thus
By sale at home he obtains the market price.
By sale abroad he obtains the foreign market
price

...

.....

Also the price of certificate.

R. 2.50

R. 1.25

.R. 1.25
R. 2.50

In practice, of course, as in the case of all commodities, the
market value of these certificates must vary according to the
demand and supply, but the theory underlying the transaction
is always this, that the exporter shall suffer no loss because he
has exported his free sugar instead of selling it in the home
market.
It is practically admitted in this case that a bounty equal to
the value of these certificates is paid by the Russian government, and the main argument of the petitioner is addressed to
the proposition that this bounty is paid, not upon exportation,
but upon production. The answer to this is that every bounty
upon exportation must, to a certain extent, operate as a bounty
upon production, since nothing can be exported which is not
produced, and hence a bounty upon exportation, by creating a
foreign demand, stimulates an increased production to the ex-

DOWNS v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

tent of such demand. Conversely, a bounty upon- production
operates to a certain extent as a bounty upon exportation, since
it opens to the manufacturer a foreign market for his merchandise producel in excess of the demand at home. A protective
tariff is the most familiar instance of this, since it enables the.
manufacturer to export the surplus for whih there is no demand at home. If there were no-tariff at all, and the expense
of producing a certain article at home were materially greater
than the expense of producing the same article abroad, there
would be none produced, and, of course,, none to export. But
with. the aid of such tariff production would be stimulated, and
might become so much greater than the home demand, that a
manufacturer would look to foreign markets for his surplus:
In the case of Russian sugar the effect of the import duties is
much enhanced by the fact that, the supply of free sugar from
the home market being limited, the -selling price is very remunerative, and each producer has therefore an interest in placing
as much sugar as he can on the home market, and as the total
amount of free sugar is distributed among all the manufactories
in proportion to their entire production, it may become to their
interest to export their surplus even at a loss, if such loss can
be compensated by the profits on sugar sold in the home market.
This would not make the tariff a bounty upon exportation, but
a mere incident to its operation upon production. But, if a
preference be given to merchandise exported over that sold in
the home market, by the remission of an excise tax, the effect
would be the same as if all such merchandise were taxed, and a
drawback repaid to the manufacturer upon so much as he exported. If the additional bounty paid by Russia upon exported
sugar were the result of'a high protective tariff upon foreign
sugar, and a further enhancement of prices by a limitation of
the amount of free sugar put upon the market, we should regard the effect of such regulations as being simply a bounty
upon production, although it might incidentally and remotely
foster an increased exportation of sugar, but where in addition
to that these regulations exempt sugar exported from excise
taxation altogether, we think it clearly falls within the definJ
tion of an indirect bounty upon exportation.
VOL. cLxxxvii-33

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinon of the Court.

The argument of the petitioner in this connection is that, if
a manufacturer sell his free sugar on the home market, he receives the home market price of, say, R. 2.50 per pood, whereas
if he export his "free sugar," he receives the foreign price,
say, R. 1.25 and IR.1.25, the price of his export certificate. "In
other words, by exporting his ' free sugar' and selling his export
certificate, the exporter receives exactly the same amount he
would have received had he sold his 'free sugar' on the home
market. All producers fare equally well before the law Those
who sell at home receive the high prices insured on the home
market, while those who export what is the equivalent thereto
-the foreign market price plus the price of the export certificate. Hence there is no bounty on exportation, for the reward
of the manufacturer is not conditioned on exportation, nor is it
greater than it would have been had he not exported. Bounty
on production this reward may be, but certainly not bounty on
exportation, for it is a contradiction in terms to call that a
bounty on exportation which is received in one form or another
by all manufacturers alike, whether they export or do not export."
It is true that when a manufacturer exports free sugar for
account of surplus, and thereby avoids the necessity of giving
security for the additional tax, he obtains an export certificate
which he may use to obtain the transfer of an equal amount of
"surplus" sugar to "free sugar" account. This right of issue
of free sugar into the home market at the normal tax he transfers when he sells his export certificate. The certificate, however, none the less represents a bounty upon exportation, although it may be used for the purpose of obtaining a transfer
of a certain amouhlt of surplus sugar to the free sugar account
for the home market.
But the fact that he receives the same amount, whether the
,goods are exported or sold at home, is not the proper test
whether a bounty is paid upon exportation. If no bounty at
all were paid all sugar, or at least all "free sugar," would pay
the same tax, whether sold at home or exported abroad, and
in this case the free sugar upon which the tax is remitted when
exported would go abroad burdened with an excise tax. of R. 1.75

DOWNS t,. UN'Ibi)

STATES.

Opinion of the Court.

per pood, which would prevent the manufacturer from selling
it at such a price abroad as would enable hin to realize a profit.
The amount he receives for his export certificate, say, IR.1.25,
is the exact ainount of the bounty he receives upon exportation,
and this enables him to sell at a profit in a foreign market.
All manufacturers would prefer to sell at home if they could
realize a greater price than by selling abroad, but if by being
paid a drawback, or by a remission of taxes, they can find a
profitable market in a forejgpl country, so much sugar as is not
needed at home will be sent abroad.
The details of this elaborate procedure for the production,
sale, taxation and exportation of Russian sugar are of much
less importance than the two facts which appear clearly
through this maze of regulations, viz. that no sugar is permitted to be sold in Russia that does not pay ai excise tax of
R. 1.75 per pood, and that sugar exported pays no tax at all.
The mere imposition of -n import duty of three roubles per
pood, paid upon foreign sugar, is, like all protective duties, a
bounty, but is a bounty upon production and not upon exportation. When a tax is imposed upon all sugar produced,
but is renitted upon all sugar exported, then, by whatever
process, or in whatever manner, or under whatever name it
is disguised, it is a bounty upon exportation.
The difference in prie between Russian sugar sold at home
and abroad is thus shown by the delegate of Austria-Hunga Try at the Sugar Conference of 1S98 by the following quotations from the Odessa exchange under date of June 10,
189S
Francs per
100 kilos.
......
For Russia: 5.8 rubles per pood, say
.....
For export.: 1.73 rubles per pood, say
Hence a difference: 3.35 rubles per pood, say
.
Deducting the tax: 1.75 rubles per pood, say
There remains a discrepancy of 1.60 per pood, say

82.70
28.16
54.54
28.49
26.05

Cents per
pound.
7.25
2.47
4.78
2.50
2.28

"The same merchandise, on the same date, and at the same
place, thus commanded a different price according to its des-

OCTOBER TERMI, 1902.
Syllabus.

tination, and the difference amounted to 26.05 francs per 100
kil6s (2.28 cents per pound).
"If we are to investigate the reasons which may impel Russian manufacturers to produce more sugar than is needed for
home, consumption, and to bring the surplus for exportation
down to a comparatively much lower price, we shall find the
explanation of this strange phenomenon in the legislative system of Russia. Such is our intimate conviction."
The object of issuing certificates of sugar exported seems to
have been merely to enable the exporting manufacturer to" obtain the best price for the privilege he assigns to the interior
manufacturer of putting an equal amount of free sugar upon
the market by assigning the certificates to the one who would
offer the best price. In this connection the Circuit Court of
Appeals found "That the Russian exporter of sugar obtained
from his government a certificate, solely because of such exportation, which is worth in the open market of that country
from R. 1.25 to R. 1.64 per pood, or from 1.8 to 2.35 cents per
pound. Therefore we hold that the government of Russia
does secure to the exporter of that country, as the inevitable
result of its action, a money reward or gratuity whenever he
exports sugar from Russia." We all concur in this expression
of opinion.
The decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals is, therefore,
Af kned.

WORDEN v. CALIFORNIA FIG SYRUP COMPA.NY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT. COURT OF APPEALS FOR TEE NINTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 386. Argued March 18, 19, 1902.-Decided January 5, 1903.

When the owner of a trace mark applies for an injunction to restrain the
defendant from injuring his property by making false representations
to the public it is essential that the plaintiff should not in his trade mark
or m his advertisements and business, be himself guilty of any false or
misleading representation, and if he makes any material false statement

