OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Syllabus.

'enacting clause exempted bonds "issued by the officers of any
State, county, town, municipal corporation or other corporation
exercising the taxing power;" but as the bonds were required.
by the State and the city and were issued for the benefit of the
public and not for the benefit of the individuals who executed
them, it appears to us that they came fairly within the meaning
of the clause, assuming that they were covered by Schedule A.
The question is whether the bonds were taken in the exercise
of a function strictly belonging to the State. and city in their
ordinary governmental capacity, and we are-of opinion that
they were, and that they were exempted as no more taxable
than the licenses. Either they were exempt, apart from the
proviso, because, in the sense of the statute, issued by the State
and city, or the proviso so far-qualified the language of the enacting clause as to exempt them in exempting the State and city
in respect of the exercise of strictly governmental functions.
We conclude, therefore, that they were not taxable within
the statute. United States v Owens, 100 Fed. Rep. 70, Stuneman v. Smzith, 100 Fed. Rep. 600; TVarwwk v Bettman, 102
.0., 108 Fed. Rep. 46, .Peoplev City, 31 0.
Fed. Rep. 127,
L. N. 211.
Judgment reversed and cause remanded with a direction to
qurish the 'indictment.

Mn. JUSTICE HARLAN did not hear the argument and took no
part in the decision.

SCHWARTZ v. DUSS.
CERTIORARI TO THE

CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE THIRD
CIRCUIT.

No. 38. Argued April 22, 23, 1902.-Decided October 27, 1902.

In an action brought for the distribution of the property and assets of the
Harmony Society on the ground that it had ceased to exist and that its
assets should revert to the heirs of the original contributors some 4f
whom were ancestors of the plaintiffs in error (complainants below),

SCHWARTZ v. DUSS.
Syllabus.
and that the defendants now in control of the property should be enjoined from transferring the same to a corporation or otherwise dealing
with the same, the bill contained allegations of fraud and conspiracy on
the part of the defendants. The ancestors of the complainants had long
since retired from the society and signed releases. The effect of several
agreements betweenthe members and founders of the society was involved
in the action; it had been held by the master, whose conclusions of law
and fact were approved by the Circuit Court and the judgment thereon
affirmed by the Circuit Court of Appeals, that none of the plaintiffs had
such a proprietary right or interest in the property and assets of the
Harmony Society as entitled them upon the dissolution of the society to
any part of, or share therein, as prayed for in the bill, and also that the
society had not been dissolved by the common consent of the members
or by an abandonment of the purposes for which it was formed.
In affirming this judgment dismlissing the bill, it is stated: "The Harmony
Society, the history whereof has been recited and'its principles characterized and defined by the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania and by this
Court" (Schriberv. Rapp, 5 Watts, 351, Baker v. Nachtrzeb, 19 How. 126;
Speidel v. Henriei, 120 U. S. 377), was founded by George Rapp, and its
members "were associated and combined by the common belief that the
government of the patriarchal age, united to the community of property,
adopted in the -days of the Apostles, would conduce to promote their
temporal and eternal happiness."
The relations of the society, precepts of government, personal and property rights, were provided.for by several written contracts executed in
1805, and thereafter. By one of these agreements some of the members
who contributed property to the society renounced individual ownership,
but by the same agreement George Rapp and his associates promised to
refund to any members retiring the value of the property so brought in,,
and if any members who had brought nothing into the community retired, they should, provided they departed openly and orderly, receive a
donation of money to be determined by George Rapp and associates.
By a subsequent agreement made in 1836, it was provided that each' individual was to be considered as having finally and irrevocably parted with
all his former contributions, and on withdrawing should not be entitled
to demand an account thereof as a matter of right, but it should be left
altogether to the discretion of the superintendent to decide whether any,
and if any, what, allowance should be made to such memberorhisrepresentatives as a donation.
The membership of the society haying greatly diminished, many of the
members retired leaving only the defendant in this action and a few
others, who had determined to trnsfer the property to a corporation,
when romplainants filed a bill claiming that the society was dissolved-andthat the assets were held by the remaining members and officers in trust
and should be distributed between former members and their descendants including complainants:
Held that the facts did not show that there was any dissolution of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Statement of the Case.
society; that the relations of the members and the society were fixed by
contract; that the plaintiffs could not have other rights than their ancestors had; that no trust was created by the agreement of 1836, and under
its terms when the plaintiffs' ancestors (who had not contributed any
property) died or withdrew from the society their rights were fixed by
the terms of that agreement; the members who died left mo rights to
their representatives, and had no rights which they could transmit to
the plaintiffs.
The Supreme Court of Pennsylvania has decided in other cases involving
these contracts that they were not offensive to the public policy of Pennsylvania.
The master,.the Circuit Court and the Circuit Court of Appeals, having
found that the society had not been dissolved, either by consent of its
members or by the abandonment of the purposes for which it was
founded, this court will not, on account of such concurrence and under
the rules of the court, review the disputed facts involved in that finding.

T.HIs suit was brought for the distribution of the property
and assets of the Harmony Society, which the bill alleged had
ceased to exist. The bill also prayed for an injunction against
John S. Duss to restrain him from m anywise dealing with the
property of the society, and also for a receiver. The bill was
exceedingly voluminous. It stated the origin and principles
and plan of government of the society, that many industries
were started and conducted by it, including a savings bank,
the town of Economy, Pennsylvania, founded by it; and that
its acquisitions, including 3000 acres of land m the city of
Pittsburg, amounted, in 1890, to upwards of $1,000,000, and
" all of said possessions up to and until the grievances hereafter complained of, were scrupulously used for the benefit of
all its members and for the advancement, benefit and continuation of the society, " that until those grievances the society,
"from the period of its inception until a recent date, adhered
rigidly to its plan of government and became illustrious and
highly respected by reason of its sincere advocacy of the equality of man, its espousal of the highest principles of Christianity,
and its honesty and benevolent administration of all public
functions, whether in the management of its internal affairs
or in its many transactions with the citizens of Western Pennsylvania."
The bill also averred that the society "but once in a period

SCHWARTZ v. DUSS.
Statement of the Case.

of ninety years suffered from serious internal disorder," which
arose from the induction into the society of one Count De Leon,
That in 1890 there
his artifices and stibsequent secession.
"began a second conspiracy, the results of which overturned'
and destroyed the entire government of the society, wasted
nearly its entire wealth, depleted its membership to a few aged
and infirm women, and placed the management of the society
and the control-of its remaining assets in the hands of one man
and certain associates and confederates, within and without
the ranks of the society"
That the acting and directing mind of the conspiracy was
John S. Duss, and he obtained his power as follows In 184:7
a plan of regulation and government of the society was adopted,
by which its internal affairs were managed by a "board of
elders," composed of nine members, and its external affairs
were managed by a "board of trustees," composed of two
members. Romulus L. Baker and Jacob Henrici were chosen
the first board of trustees. Baker died in 1868, and Henrici
and Jonathan Lenz became the board of trustees, the latter
was succeeded upon his death in 1890 by Ernest Woelful,
Woelful also died in 1890 and Duss became his successor.
Henrici died in 1892, and one Samuel Sieber was appointed,
and on his retirement from the society Gottlieb Riethrnueller, a
relative of Duss, was elected trustee. At the time of the filing
of the bill Duss and Riethmueller were trustees.
The bill detailed the acts and purposes of Duss at great
length. It is, however, enough to say that the bill alleged
that he became senior trustee and a member of the board of
elders, and conceived the purpose of wrecking and dismembering the society, and attempted to execute such purpose. That
the condition of the society gave him opportunity, that he
caused the expulsion of at least one member, and induced or
paid others to withdraw That the increase in the society
could only be through the admission of new members, and he
directed that no new members be elected under any circumstances whatever, and as a result thereof the said Duss and
Susie, his wife, were the last members admitted in the four
years preceding the filing of the bill.

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Statement of the Case.

That he entered into certain arrangements with one Henry
Hice and John Reeves, of the town of Beaver, Pennsylvania,
by which he used $1,000,000 of the society's money without
the knowledge or consent of its members "to pay off the alleged indebtedness of the Economy Savings Bank, of which said
Hice and Reeves were the principal officers," though at the
time he knew that the bank was wholly insolvent by reason of
the overdrafts made by said Hice and Reeves, and although he
knew that they had caused a loss to the society.of over $2,000,000,
"as officers and stockholders in said bank, and officers and
stockholders in the Beaver Falls Cutlery Works and File Works,
the debtors of said bank," that he had not sued to recover
back the money, but, on the contrary, had abetted them in obtaining further assets of the society
That in pursuance of his scheme to defraud the society and
to pay the indebtedness of the Economy Savings Bank, and for
paying off claims upon which the society was only partly
liable, if at all, he and- his co-trustee Henrfci executed a mortgage for the sum of $400,000 upon the real estate of the society,
but that Henrici at the time of its execution "was in articulo
Mort-is, and wholly beyond any power of comprehension of his
act." And on the -day of June, 1893, he caused to be executed another mortgage, without the knowledge or consent of.the
members, for $100,000, bearing interest at six per cent, upon
the land described in the former mortgage, to raise a fund
"wherewith to secretly secure and- induce removal of those
members most likely to inquire into -the validity or propriety of
his conduct as trustee."
It was averred that the society had certain dividend paying
stocks which Duss, in pursuance of his scheme, disposed of
without the knowledge of any member- of the society, except
possibly his wife, and Gottlieb Riethmueller The names of
ten persons were stated, who, it was alleged, Duss, "by representation, coercion and the payment of large sums of money,"
were induced within two years preceding the commencement
of the suit to withdraw from the society, and that he was endeavoring to compel remaining members "to depart by means
of intimidation and oppression."

SCHWARTZ v. DUSS.
Statement of the Case.

That the membership of the society was reduced to7 6ight
persons, none of whom were aware of the actions of Duss, or
were consulted by him.
"That on the 12th day of April, 1894, the said Duss, without
any authority from the members of the Harmony- Society, and
in the utmost disregard to his trust, secretly entered into an,
agreement with said Hice, Reeves and one James Dickson,
whereby he, the said Duss, agreed to convey the town -of
Economy, the surrounding properties and certain other lands.
of the Harmony Society, situate in Allegheny County, to the
-Union Company, an alleged corporation created under the laws
of the State of Pennsylvama. And your orators allege that a
conveyance has been made by said Dass for the lands as aforesaid, and that the same was made without the knowledge of
your orators or any members oe the said society, excepting
possibly Susie C., wife of said Duss, and Gottlieb Riethmueller.
That by the said pretended conveyance and sale of the home
of the Harmony Society and its other properties, the said Duss
has attempted to wholly terminate the. existence of said society.,
not only as to the government thereof by the board of elders
and by the members, but also as to the ownership of any property That the said Union Company, in addition to said Duss
and Riethmueller, is composed of said Hice and Reeves, debtors of the said Harmony Society, as hereinbefore stated, and
one James Dickson, the private bookkeeper and confidential
agent of said Duss, whose interest in said corporation was acquired by gift from said Duss.
"That your orators are advised that it was not competent
for the said trustees to convey said properties to the said Union
Company, but such transfer was a breach of trust and wholly
invalid."
It was further averred that the principle of equality had
been departed from. That Duss and his family enjoyed every
luxury, while the aged and infirm members were obliged "to be
content with the bare necessaries of life, awarded with grudging,
stinting hands?'
And it was finally averred" That recently said Harmony-Society has become dissolved

OCTOBER, TERM, 1902.
Statement of the Case.

as aforesaid, that all of its purposes and practices established
as aforesaid by the founder of said society and by the ancestors
of your orators have been abandoned, that the pursuit of
agriculture no longer exists in said society, that its chief assets,
consisting of bonds, stocks and other securities, and the town
of Economy, with its buildings and the adjacent lands of said
society, consisting of some- 3000 acres, and which constituted
the basis of organization and business of said society, have
been sold and conveyed away by the said Duss as aforesaid in
fraud, however, of the rights 6f your orators and their cotenants, and that by reason of the facts hereinbefore set forth
your orators and the said last members, except the said Duss
and wife, are now tenants in common of all said lands and
tenements, and entitled to partition thereof in proportion to
their respective interests.
"That for some time past the members of said Harmony
Society have been retiring therefrom and have received the
amount of their interest'in said association in the land or money,
or both, the land being set apartin severalty to them, and have
released all of their rights and interests in said association in
consideration for such payment or conveyance to them, and
that by said retirement and withdrawal the membership of said
association has been reduced to the persons hereinbefore named
members, that by common consent this association has ceased
to exist as an association, and that if the property tRereof has
ever been impressed with a trust (which your orators deny, as
being contrary to public policy and void in law or equity),
such trust has wholly ceased, and the assets of such dissolved
association have reverted to the donors thereof, among whom
were the ancestors and intestates of your orators as hereinbefore fully set forth."
Duss, Hice, Reeves and the Union Company answered separately The other defendants joined in an answer. By agreement of the parties the case was referred to a master, with
"authority to hear and take all the testimony, and to find all
the issues of law and facts, and to report the testimony and
such findings to the court, and if the report of such master
shall suggest a decree that the plaintiffs or any of them are en-

SCHWARTZ v. DUSS.

15

Opinion of the Court.

titled to an account against the defendants or any of them, and
the same be confirmed by the court, then the case shall be
referred again to the master, to state such an account and report thereon to the court."
Under the orders of the court the -master considered the following questions
"First. Have the plaintiffs, or any of them, such a proprietary
right or interest in the property and assets of the Harmony
Society-as entitled them upon the dissolution of the society to
any part of or share in such property or assets or as entitles
them to the account prayed for in the bill 9'
"Second. Has the Harmony Society been dissolved by the
common consent df the ifhembers or by.an abandonment of the
purposes for which it -was formed 2"
On both propositions the miaster reported adversely to the
claim nf the petitioners, and recommended a decree dismissing
the bill. His conclusions of fact and law were approved and
accepted by the Circuit Court, and adecree entered dismissing
the bill. The decree was affirmed by the Circuit Court of Appeals. The case was then brought here by certiorari on petition
of the plaintiffs in the Circuit Court. Other facts will be stated
in the opinion.
.Mr George Ska, 3d, and M'. Skoyer, J'., for petitioners.
. Watson for respondents.
.
.M _D
was with bint on the brief.

.fr.

John8 .MiCleave

MR. JuSTIOE MOIKENNA, after makug the foregoing statqment, delivered the opimon of the court.
Two questions were. submitted, to the .master -(1) Have the
plaintiffs such a proprietary right or interest as would entitle
them upon the dissolution of the society to share all-its property
or assets, or which entitles them to an accounting 2 (2) Has
the society been dissolved by consent or by an abandonment of
the purposes for which it was formed? A negative answer to
either of the propositions deteimnes the controversy agamst

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

petitioners, and both were so answered by the master and by
the Circuit Court and the Circuit Court of Appeals. The case,
therefore, seems not to be as broad or as complex as presented
in the argument of counsel. The case is certainly clear from
any disputes of fact, and we may dismiss from consideration the
accusations against Duss, not only as to his motives in 3oining
the society, but also as to his motives and acts as a member and
officer of it. We are concerned alone with the legal.aspect and
,consequences of his acts and those of his associates. They,
however, pertain more particularly .to the second proposition.
This is not the first time that the Harmony Society has been
before the courts. Its history has been recited and its principles
characteried and defined, not only by the Supreme Court of
Pennsylvania, but by this court. Schriber v Rapp, 5 Watts,
351, Baker et aZ. v .lVachtrzeb,19 How 126, .peulelv Hen-ric,
120 U. S. 377.
The society was formed by one George Rapp- who, with his
son and others. came from the Kingdom of Wurtemberg to the
United States in 1803 or 1804, and settled at Harmony, in Butler
County,.Pennsylvania. In 1814 ,the society moved to Posey
County, Indiana, and later removed to Economy, Pennsylvania,
its present abode, in 1825. Its members "were associated and
combined by the common belief that the government of the
patriarchal age, united to the community of property, adopted
in the days of the Apostles, would bonduce to promote their temporal and eternal happiness." 19 How 126.
Their relations, principles of government, personal and property rights were provided for by written contracts executed respectively in 1805, 1821, 1827, 1836, 1847, 1890 and 1892. The
present discussion is concerned with the first four.
By article 1 of the contract of 1805 each subscriber to that
contract delivered up, renounced and remitted all of his or her
property of every kand, "as a free gift or donation, for the benefit and use of the community," and bound himself, his heirs
and descendants, "to make free renunciation thereof, and to
leave the same at the disposal of the superintendents of the
community," as if the subscriber "never had nor possessed
it."

SCHWARTZ v. DUSS.
Opinion of the Court.

In article 2 they pledged obedience and submission to the
society, and promised." to promote the good and interest of the
community," and to that they pledged their children and families. But recognizing .a possible weakness and inability to
"stand to it in the community," they promised (article 3) never
to demand any reward for themselves or children for "labor or
services," and declared whatever they should do would be "as
a voluntary service for our brethren." In consideration of this
renunciation of property and dedication of labor and services,
George Rapp and his associates promised to supply the subscribers to the contract with all the necessaries of life, not only
in their "healthful days, but when they should become sick or
unfit for labor." And if after a "short or long period" a member should die or otherwise depart from the community, "being the father or mother of a-family," such family should'" not
be left widows and orphans but partakers of the same rights
and maintenance."
Article 5 was as follows
"And if the case should happen, as above stated, that one or
more of the subscribers, after a short or long period, should
break their promise, and could or would not submit to the laws
and regulations of the church or community, and for that or
any other cause would leave Harmony, George Rapp and his
associates promise- to refund him or them the value of his or
their property, brought in without interest, in one, two or three
annual installments, as the sum may be, large or small, and if
one or more of them were poor and brought nothing into the
community, they shall, provided they. depart openly and orderly,
receive a donation of money, according to his or their conduct
while a member, or as he or their circumstances and necessities
may require, which George iRapp and associates shall determine
at his or their departure."
The society became the owner'of about 000 acres of land at
Harmony, which on May 6, 1815; was conveyed by Frederick
Rapp, as attorney in fact, to. Abraham Ziegler for $100,000.
That year, or in 1814, the society removed to Indiana. There
a second agreement was entered into January 20, 1821. This
agreement expressed, as that of 1805, the submission of the subVOL. oL;xxxvi-2

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

scribers to the society, the dedication of their service and labor,
and contained the same promises of support.
The master found that "in 1825 the society removed from
Indiana to Beaver County, Pennsylvania, where they purchased
and settled upon a tract of land containing about 3000 acres,
now known as ' Economy,' where they have since remained, and
which has since become very valuable, and on which they have
erected many buildings, including dwellings and factories of
yarious kinds, and made many valuable improvements."
In 1827 another agreement was entered into, the preamble
of which was as follows
"Whereas by the favor of Divine Providence an association
or community has been fbrined by George iRapp and many
others upon the basis of Christian fellowship, the principles of
which being faithfully derived from the sacred Scriptures , include the government of the patriarchal age, united to the comintnity of property adopted in the days of the apostles, and.
wherein the single object sought is to approximate, so far as
human iiperfection will allow, to the fulfillment of the will of
God by the exercise of those affections and the practice of those
virtues which are essential to the happiness of man in time and
throughout eternity
"And whereas it is necessary to the good order and well
being of said associations that the condition of membership
should be clearly understood, and that the rights and privileges
and duties of every individual-therein should be so defined as
to prevent mistake or disappointment on the one hand and contention or disagreement on the other."
This agreement was an amplification of that of 1805. Article 5 of the latter became article 6. This agreement was signed
by 522 members of the association, and afterwards, anil until
February 14, 1836, was signed by 144 additional members. In
1832, dissensions having arisen, a large number of the meinbers
withdrew under the leadership of one Count De Leon. They
received $110,000, and granted a release unto George Rapp andhis associates of all of their right and title in any of the property "belonging to the society of George Rapp and his assor
ciates."

SCHWARTZ v. DUSS.
Opimon of the Court.

In 1836 another agreement was entered into revoking and
annulling the sixth article of the agreement of 1827-fifth article of the agreement of 1805. The agreement recited the sixth
article"And whereas the provisions of the said sixth article, though
assented to at ihe'time manifestly depart from the great principle of a community of goods and may tend to foster and
perpetuate a feeling of inequality at variance with the true
spirit and objects of the association,
"And whereas the principle of restoration of property, besides its pernicious tendency, is one' which cannot now be
enforced with uniformity and fairness, inasmuch as the memhers of the associatian in the year 1816, under a solemn conviction of the truth bf what is above recited, did destroy all
record and memorial of the respective contributions up to. that
time ,.
"And whereas continued happigess and prosperity of the association, a more intimate knowledge of each other, have
removed from the minds of all members the least apprehension of injustice and bad faith
"Now, therefore, be it known by these presents that the
undersigned, with a view to carry out fully the great principles
of our union, and in consideration of the benefits to be derived
therefrom, do hereby solemnly enter into covenaits, and agree
with each other as follows
"1st. The said sixth article is entirely annulled and made
void, as if it had never existed, all others remain in full force
as heretofore.
- "2d. All the property of the society, real, personal and
mixed, in law or equity, and howsoever contributed or acquired, shall be deemed now**and forever -joint and indivisible
stock. Each individual is to be.considered to have finally and
irrevocably parted with all his former contributions, whether
in land, goods, money or labor, and the same rule shall apply
to all future contributions whatever they may be.
"3d. Should aiiy individual withdraw from the society, or
depart this life, neither he-in the one case nor his representatives
in the other shall be entitled to demand an account of said

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

contributions, whether in land, goods, money or labor, or to
claim anything frimn the society as matter of right. But it
shall be left altogether to the discretion of the superintendent
to decide whether any, and if any what, allowance shall be made
to such member or his representatives as a donation."
The agreement was signed by all who were then members,
and subsequently by thirty-three others.
Prior to his death, m 1834, Frederick Rapp, a member of the
society, had been its business agent, and transacted its external
affairs. After his death the members of the society (July 5,
1834) executed a power of attorney to Qeorge Rapp, constituting him such general agent, with power to appoint agents and
substitutes under him. On the same day he appointed Romulus
L. Baker and Jacob Henrici his substitutes. This power of attorney was'signed by 402 members, and recited the death of
Frederick Rapp, and-the consequent necessity for the appointment of a new agent, so that the temporal affaars of the society
would continue to be managed in a mode which had proved
convenient and satisfactory, constituted George Rapp such
agent with power of substitution, invested him with all necessary powers, including the receipt and the execution of conveyancesof real and personal property George Rapp disclaimed
any greater interest in the then resources or future earnings
of the society than other members.
George Rapp was the founder of the society, and continued
to be its head or superintendent, and to rule and govern it until
his death in 184[. After his death another agreement was executed (August 12, 1847) It was signed by 280 members. The
agreement recited the death of Rapp, and expressed the necessity " to the good order and well being of the association that
some plan should be agreed upon to regulate its future affairs,
promote its general welfare and preserve and maintain ie upon
its original basis ," it also announced to all immediately concerned tbat'the surviving and remaining members of the ilarmony Society, each covenanted with all the others thereof, and.
with those who should thereafter become members, "to solemnly recognize, restablish and continue the articles of our

SCHWARTZ v. DUSS.
Opinion of the Court.

associatioh (the sixth sectibn excepted), entered into at Economy
on the 9th day of March, A. D. 1827."
This agreement created a board of elders of nine members to
conduct the internal affairs of the society; and a board of trustees of two members to conduct its external affairs. The trustees disclaimed any greater personal interest in the property of
the society than other members.
These agreements, the master found, "are the agreements
and documents under which, or some of which, the plaintiffs
claim the right to share in the property and assets of the society
as heirs of former members." And as to the relations of the
plaintiffs to the society the master found as follows
"1st. That none of the plaintiffs were ever members of the
society
"2d. That all of those members of the society through whom
Christian Schwartz claims as their heir, signed the agreements
of 1836 and 1874, and continued members until their death.
"3d. That Antony Koterba claims as heir of his father, Joseph Koterba, and his half-brother, Andreas 1oterba, that Joseph Koterba joined in the organization of the society, and also
signed the agreement of 1827, and afterwards, in 1827, withdrew from the society, and that Andreas Koterba signed the
agreements of 1827, 1836 and 184", and died a member of- the
society
"4th. That the grandparents of David Strohaker, -viz., Christian Strohake and wife, and Matthias Rief and wife, joined the
society in 1805, and all remained members until their deathall dying between 1820 and 1825, except Ivfrs. Rief, who died
between 1830 and 1836. That his father, Christopher Strohaker, signed the agreement of 1827, and withdrew from the society in 1827. That his aunt, Catharina Strohaker, signed the
agreements of 1827, 1836 and 1847, and continued a member
of the society until her death.
.'5th.That Lawrence Seheel and Jacob Scheel, -ancestors of
Allen and G. L. Shale, joined the society in 1805, that Lawrence withdrew in 1821 or 1826, that Jacob Scheel signed the
agreement in 1827 and died a member, about 1837.

OCTOBER TERMI, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

"6th. That none of the parties through whom the plaintiffs
claim contributed any money or property to the society"
He divided the persons from whom the plaintiffs claim as
follows
"First. Those withdrawn from the society before the execution of the agreement of 1836.
"Second. Those dying in the society before ihat time.
"Third. Those whodied members of the society after having
joined in the agreements of 1836 and 1847."
Manifestly the plaintiffs cannot have other rights than their
ancestors, and the rights of the latter depend upon the agreements they signed. The agreements we have recited. The
signers of' them certainly strove to express their meaning
clearly, and, whenever occasion arose, declared their understanding, alms and purposes, and always substantially in the
same way
The cardinal principle of the society was self-abnegation. It
was manifested not only by subnission to a religious head, but
by a community instead of individual ownership of property,
and the dedication of their labor to the society. The possibility
of some member or members not being able to "stand to it,"
to use the expressive phrase of the agreements, was contemplated, and provision was x'ade for that event. But a very significant difference was made between a performance of -service
and the contribution of property For the former it was coveianted by the members no reward should be demanded for
themselves or their children or those belonging to them. 'As
to the latter, George Rapp and his 'associates promised to refund the value of the property brought inwithout interest, in
one, two or three annual installmefits, as the same might be
large or small. It was, however, provided, as to those who
"were poor and brought nothing to the community," that they
should receive, if they departed openly and orderly, "a donation in money, according to his or their conduct while a menber, or as his or their-circumstances might require," as "George
Rapp andl his associates shall determine" (agreement of 1805),
as "in the jdidgment of the-superintendents of the association"
(agreement of 1827).

SCHWARTZ v. DUS,
Opinion of the Court.

Those provisions apply to those who withdrew from the society prior to 1836-the first class into which the master divided the plaintiffs, and need not much comment. None of
the persons who so withdrew contributed property to the association. We are not informed by the record whether their
conduct when in the society or whether their manner of withdrawing from it, entitled them to the consideration that the
articles of agreement permitted as an indulgence to withdrawing members. If they could have exacted anything as a matter
of right it would now be presumed that it had been demanded
and the demand satisfied.
There was another class, the faithful and abiding members,
but even these, the.master found, contributed no property, and
the decision of their rights becomes as easy as the decision of
the right of those who "' could not stand to it in the com munity" and withdrew They promised, as we have seen, to endeavor by the labor of their hands "to promote the good and
interest of the community," and to hold their "children and
families to do the same." And for compensation they-received
instruction in church and school. They received assurance of
maintenance "in healthful days" and days which might not be
such, and assurance when death should come to them, that
their families would be taken care of. It may be presumed that
as the members were faithful.to 'their covenants the society
was faithful to its covenants, and there were no undischarged
obligations or rights for distant relatives of deceased members
to assert or claim against the community or its property This
seems to be conceded by counsel for petitioners, and we are
brought to the consideration of the third class into which the
master divided the persons from-whom some of the petitioners claim to derive, those who died members of the society after having joined in the agreements of 1836 and 187.
Counsel for petitioners say in their brief "The article of
1836 is the only material article bearing upon the property
rights of the plaintiffs, while the articles of 1805, 1821, 1827
and 1847 are material in considering the character of the trust,
the purposes and principles of the society"
In other words, as we understand counsel by the propositions

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

they have submitted and. the arguments employed to support
them, by the articles executed prior to October 31, 1836,
those who joined the society made "a free gift and donation
of all their property" to,George Rapp and his associates, "for
the use and benefit.of-the commnmity," upon the condition, however, to have the property returned to them if they should
withdraw from the society But that "by the articles of October 31, 183Q, all the members of the society agreed with each
other to surrender this right of property restitution which each
possessed, aud to convey the same to all .the members in equal
shares." In other -words, the gifts before 1836 were to the
community, after 1836 to "all the members in equal shares."
This difference in result in 1836 and afterwards was effected,
fit
is claimed, by the following provision of the agreement
of
1836
"All the property of the society, real, personal and mixed,
in law or equity and howsoever constituted or acquired, shall
be deemed, now and forever, joint and indivisible stock. Each
individual is to be considered to have finally-and irrevocably
parted with all his former contributions, whether in lands,
goods, money or labor, and the same rule shall apply to all
future contributions, whatever they may. be."
To the artic]eg of 1836, it is also contended, that the society
as such was not a pa'ty, but nevertheless the.property became
impressed with a .trust for the use of the society, as such, "by
those who then (1836) represented the ownership of this joint
and indivisible stock," and as each new member came in "he
became an owner of an equal share of the property, subject to
the trust." And it is further contended that the members-of
1836 and those who,came in afterwards became donors of the
property, and when the society or the trust failed from any
cause the "corpus of the trust property '1 reverted to them "by
not to the surviving members
way of resulting trust,
as donees, orbeneficiaries of the trust." In other words, the
members became at once donees of each other And donors to the
society, and the descendants of members who had not and might
not bring a dollar to the society excluded from any interest in
'the reversion of its great propertes the. descendants of those

SCHWARTZ v. DUSS..
Opinion of the Court.

from whom those properties came. And this through the doctrine of resulting trusts, whose fundamental principle is to recognize an equity only in them from whom the consideration has
proceeded. And this, too, would result from granting the contentions of petitioners-a society whose chief purpose was to
establish community of property would come back to the assertion and, fact of individual ownership, and whose hope was selfsacrifice and self-abasement would encourage self-interest and
self-assertion. Members could go into the society or go out of
it, take nothing to it, serve it ever so little, and become ultimate
sharers of its property They might die in the society, or, having withdrawn, die out of it, and will or convey their titles or
rights to others. No such right was ever conceived to exist
and no such right was-intended to be created. This is demonstrated by the quotations which we have made from the articles
of agreement. The permanence of the community was pro-;
vided for in the articles of 1805, it was continued in those of
1821 and 1827, and on account of the secession of Count De
Leon and his followers it was asserted with emphasis in 1836.
The article of that year became, and was intended to become,
the complete and final consummation of community ownership
-did not become and was not intended to become the commencement of individual ownership. That article was but an
incident in the life and evolution of the society It asserted
constancy to the principles of the association, and annulled the
sixth article of 1825-fifth article of 1805, because that article
manifestly departed "-from the great principle. of community
of goodsx" and it was said that "with a view to carry out the
great principles" of their union "and in consideration of the
benefits to be derived therefrom," they entered into this covenant
"Should any individual withdraw from the society, or depart
this life, neither he in the one case nor his representatives in
the other shall be entitled to demand an account of said contributions, whether in land, goods, money or labor, or to claim
anything from the society as matter of right. But it shall be
left altogether to the discretion of the superintendent to decide

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
-Opinion of the Court.

whether any, and if any what, allowance shall be made to such
member or his representatives as a donation."
The purpose was definite and clearly expressed. It was
certainly thought to be, clear enough by the men who framed
it to. declare and accomplish the-" sacrifice of all narrow and
selfish feelings to the true purposes of the association," as the
articles fervidly declared. And it was provided that the member who withdrew from the society could make no demand
.against it "as a matter of right." The member who died left
no right to his representatives. It needs. no argument to show
that as such membershad no rights they could transmit none
to the petitioners in this case.
No trust having been created by the agreement of 1836 different from that created by the other agreements, there is no
necessity to consider the arguments based on the assumptaon of
its invalidity That agreement was the affirmation and the continuation of the prior agreements, and they were held not to
be offensive to the public policy of Pennsylvania, by the S,
preme Court of that State in- Schriber v Rap, 5 Watts, 351.
The trial court in that case had instructed the jury that "there
is nothing in the articles of association (those of 1805, 1821 and
1827) given in evidence that renders the agreement unlawful or
void, nothing n them inconsistent with constitutional rights,
moral precepts, or public policy"
The Supreme Court observed that the point made against the
articles as being against public policy was attended with no
difficulty, and. Chief Tustice Gibson said for the court- "An association for the purposes expressed is prohibited neither by
statute nor the common law" And it did not occur to this
court in Baker et al. v Yaehozeb, 19 fHow 126. to treat them
asanvalid contracts. See also Goesele v.Bimeler et aZ., 14 How.
589, Spezdel v H~en'wi, 120 U. S.377.
An analysis of the agreements of 1847, 1890 and 1892 is not
necessary They were made to meet particular exigencies, and
expressly affirmed the prior agreementsi except the sixth section of that of 1827.
The master, and both the Circuit Court and the Circuit Court
of Appeals, found that the society had not-been dissolved, either

SCHWARTZ v. DUSS.
CHEF JUsTmcE FULLER and JUSTICE BREWER, dissenting.

by the consent of its members or by the' abandonment of the
purposes for which it was founded. On account of this concurrence the disputed facts involved in that finding, under the rules
of this court, and the circumstances of the record, we do not
feel disposed to review There is left, therefore, for consideration only the agreements of 1890 and 1892 and the changes in
administration effected by them, and the conveyance of the
property of the society to the Union Company So far as those
agreements affect the property rights of petitioners-we have expressed an opinion of them, but their effect upo4 the question
of the dissolution of the society, or the effect of the conveyance
to the Union Company, we are not called- upon to decide. In
that question, we have seep, the petitioners have no concern.
Xudgment affrmed.
MR. JUSTME

GRAY and MR. JusTIcE SmRis took no part in

the decision.
MR. CnIEF JUsTICE FULLER, with
BREWER,

whom concurred MR. JusTI E

dissenting.

Assuming the validity of the trusts, the questions appear to
be, whether the condition of things has resulted in failure to
carry out, and of ability to carry out the principles and purposes of the society, and the defeat of the trusts, and, if so,
whether the destination of the borpus of the trust property has,
thereupon, become such that complainants or some of them have
a locus standi to ask relief in a court of equity
The courts below held that the society still existed in law and
in fact, and that this case was-not one of'" dealing with the
assets of a defunct or dissolved association," or in other words,
that the trusts had not been defeated, and the decrees rested on
this conclusion. If erroneous, the inquiry then arises, to whom
does the corpus of the. trust property go mithe event of the defeat of the trusts.
A brief recapitulation of the facts is necessaiy to indicate the

grounds of my inability to concur in the opinion and judgment
of the court.

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
C HEF JUsTicE FULLER and JUSTICE BREWER,

dissenting.

In 1803, George Rapp and others located at Harmony, Butler
County, Pennsylvania, removed in 1814 to Indiana, and returned
in 1825 to Pennsylvania, and located at Economy, in Beaver
County They-formed a society or association, which, as said
by the Circuit Court of Appeals, "was organized upon the principle of community of goods and land ownership.
"The members of the said society who had brought with them
from Wurtemburg, money, combined their funds and all their
property in common, they lived as members of a common household and each member enjoying, alike with every other, the
fruits of their common labor in equality and brotherhood. The
occupation or business of the said society was agriculture, except in so far as it was necessary to manufacture shoes, clothing
and other necessaries for the community The members of the
said society obeyed George Rapp as their spiritual and temporal
leader and ruler. About the year 1807, the community promulgated the doctrine of celibacy as being necessary for the
success of a communistic society"
Although styled "George Rapp and his associates," Rapp
was, from the bginning to his death in 1847, the absolute and
exclusive ruler in whom all power was vesteo. Membees were
idmitted by adoption and 6n-adoption conveyed and transferred all their property, real and personal, to "George Rapp
and his associates," and after 1836, to the Harmony Society,
for the use and benefit of the community
By article 5 of a written agreement of February 5, 1805, if
for any cause one or more of the subscribers should leave Harmony, "George Rapp and his associates" promised to refund
the value of his or their prqperty brought in, while those who
brought nothing in might receive a donation.
The second agreement was dated January 20, 1821, and the
third, March 9, 1827.
The first branch of the preamble of this agreement of 1827,
read "Whereas, By the favor of Divine Providence, an assooiation, or community, has been formed by George Rapp and
many othes, upon the basis of Christian Fellbwship, the principles of which being faithfully derived from the sacred Scriptures, include the government of the patriarchal age, united to

SCHWARTZ v. DUSS.
CHIEF JUSTICE FULLER and JUSTICE BREWER, dissenting.

the community of property adopted in the days of the Apostles,
and wherein the single object sought is to approximate, so far
as humnan imperfection may allow, to the fulfillment of the
will of God, by, the exercise of those affections, and the practice of those virtues which are essential to the happiness of
man in time and throughout eternity."
By the first article the subscribers gave, granted and forever
conveyed "to the said George Rapp and his associates, their
heirs and assigns, all our property, real, personal and mixed,
whether it be lands and tenements, goods and chattels, money
or debts due to us, jointly or severally, in possession or in remainder or in reversion, or in expectancy, whatsoever or wheresoever, without evasion, or qualification, or reserve, as a free
gift or donation, for the benefit and use of said association or
community."
Members were to be obedient to superintendents, were bound
to promote the interests and welfare of the community, and
were to receive support and instruction.
,The sixth article (almost identical with article 5 of 1805),
was as follows "And if it should happen as above mentioned,
that any of the undersigned should violate his or her agreement,
and would or could not submit to the laws and regulations of
the church or community, and for that or any other reason,
should withdraw from the association, then the said George
Rapp and his associates agree to refund to him or them the
value of all such property, without interest, as he or they may
have brought into the community in compliance with the first
article of this agreement, and the said value to be refunded in
one, two or three annual installments, as the said George Rapp
and his associates shall determine. And if the person 9r persons so withdrawing themselves were poor, and brought nothing
into the community, yet if they depart openly and regularly,
they shall receive a donation in mpney, according.to the length
of their stay and to their conduct, and to such an amoun-, as
their necessities may require, in the judgment of the superintendents of the association."
The master found, among other things, as follows,
"Prior to his death in 1834, Frederick Rapp, a member of

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
CIIEMF'JUSTICE FULLR and JUSTimE BREWER, dissenting.

'the society, had been the business agent of the society, transactng its external business. After his death the members of the
society on, July 5, 1834, executed a power of attorney to
George Rapp-Exhibit No. 85 in evidence-constituting him
general agent of the society in all its temporal affairs, with
power to appoint agents and substitutes under him. Under
this 'power, he on the same day appointed Romulus L. Baker
and Jacob Henrici his substitutes. This power of attorney was
signed 'by four hundred aad two members of the association,
and with the substitution and not including the signatures, is as
follows
"' Know all men by these presents Whereas, Frederick Rapp,
of Economy, in 'Beaver County, State of Pennsylvania, recently
deceased, was for a series of years the agent in temporal affairs
-of the Harmonie Society, carrying on in his own name all the
external business of said society-and taking to himself the titles
to real estate as well as the evidence of claims arising out of the
various transactions of said society,
"'And Whereas, By 'an instrument dated the 20th of July,
1825, under the hand-and seal of said Frederick, he solemnly
and irrevocably declared that all the property, real, personal
and mixed, which then was or hereafter might be in his possession or enjoyment, or the title to which he then held or might
hereafter hold, was and should be considered the property of
the said society, in -which he the said Frederick had no absolute
interest whatsoever,
"' And Whereas, The lamented death of the said Frederick
Rapp renders it indispensable that a new agent should be appointed by whor0i the temporal affairs of the society may continue to be managed in a mode.wh.ich has proved convenient and
satisfactory,
"'Now, Therefore, Be it known, that we the undersigned,
constituting said Harmome Society, do hereby nominate and
appoint George Rapp, of Economy, in the County of Beaver,
the general agent of said society in all its temporal affairs.
" The powers intended'to be conferred on the said George
Rapp are hereby declared to be as follows, that'is to say"' 1. To ask for, demand and receive from each and every

SCHWARTZ v. DUSS.
CHmiF JUSTICE FULLER andJusTIcE BREWER, dissenting.

bank or other incorporated company, partnership, or individual
person .or persons, the amount which may be due therefrom, in
the way of principal, interest or dividend to the said Harmonme
Society, or to Frederick Rapp,. whether the same be evidenced
by judgment, mortgage, bond, certificate of stock, note, bill of
exchange, deposit of money, book account,. verbal proise, sale
or barter, loain or money, or arise in any other manner whatsoever, the check, order, receipt, acquittance or release of the
said George Rapp to be as effectual as if executed by all aiid
each of us, or as if it had been executed by the said Frederick
Rapp in his lifetime.
"' 2. To execute and receive all deeds and conveyances, in fee
simple or otherwise, on behalf of the sodiety, whether the title
thereto stand in the name of the society or of Frederick Rapp
or of George Rapp and associates. The act of the said George
Rapp relative -thereto to be as.valid and sufficient as if executed
by us or by the said Frederick Rapp in his lifetime.
" 3. To carry on, by himself or'theough the agents whom he
is hereinafter authorized to appoint,, all the d~alings and traffic
of said society of every description.
"' 4. To constitute and appoint an agent or agents under him
as he may deem advisable, imparting to spch substitute or substitutes, should he think fit the .whole or any portion of the
authority hereby conferred on himself. He may also at his
pleasure -revoke such instrument of substitution whenever he
may think such revocation called for by the interests of the
society
5. It is distinctly understood that ih accepting and acting
under this power the said George Rapp disclaims all personal
interest other than that of a member of said society in the
present resources or future earnings of the society, in conformity with the principles and terms upofi which the Harmome
Sbciety was orginally founded, as fully and effectually as was
done by-the late Frederick Rapp in the instrument already
adverted to, dated 20thJuly, 1825, the terms of which instrument the said George IRapp hereby adopts for himself and
repeats in every particular.
"' In witness whereof the undersigned members of the Har-

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
CHIEF JUSTICE FULLER and JUSTICE BREWER, dissenting.

monie Society who constitute said society, have hereunto set
their hands and seals at Economy, in Beaver County, this fifth

day of July, in the year of our Lord, eighteen hundred and
thirty-four.'
(Signatures.)
(Acknowledgment.)
"'By virtue of the authority expressed in the fourth article
of the foregoing power of attorney, I do appoint andsubstitute
in my place and stead, Romulus L. Baker and Jacob Henrici,
of Economy, Beaver County, Pennsylvania, to act as general
agents of the Harmonie Society aforesaid, jointly or severally

in my name, and for the use of the said society, to do and perform all acts and things which as the general agent of said
society, I am authorized to do. It being distinctly understood,
however, that in accepting and -performing the office and business of general agents of the said society, the said R. L. Baker
and Jacob Henrici shall neither acquire nor claim any personal
interest in the present resources or future earnings of the said
society other than that of a member of the said society, agreeably to the plans and terms of association, but shall be considered as exercising the same trust mentioned in a declaration
of trust signed by Frederick Rapp on the 20th day of July,
1825, and referred to in the foregoing power of attorney to
George Rapp.'"
Signed, sealed and delivered by George Rapp.
October 31, 1836, the following agreement was executed by
391 members of the society and afterwards accepted and
adopted by 33 others
"Whereas, The Harmome Society, consisting of George
Rapp and many others, now established in the town of Economy, in Beaver County, Pennsylvania, did on the 9th of March,
1827, enter into certain articles of association, of which the 6th
in number is as follows, viz. [here follows that article]
"And whereas, The provisions of the said 6th article, though
assented to at the time, manifestly depart from the great principle of a community of goods and may tend to foster and perpetuate a feeling of inequality at variance with the true spirit
and objects of the association,

SCHWARTZ v. DUSS.
CHIEF JUSTIdE FULLER and JUSTICE BREWER, dissenting.

"And whereas, The principle of restoration of property, besides its pernicious tendency, is one which cannot now be
enforced with uniformity and fairness, inasmuch as the memnr
bers of the association in the year 1816, under a solemn conviction of the truth of what is above recited, did -destroy all
record and memorial of the respective coJitributions up to that.
time,
"And whereas, Continued happiness and prosperity of the
association, and a more intimate knowledge of each other, have
removed from the minds of all members the least apprehension
of injustice and bad faith;
"Now therefore, Be it known by these presents that the undersigned, with a view to carry out fully the great piinciples
of our union, and in consideration of the benefits to be derived
therefrom, do hereby solemnly enter into covenants, and agree
with each other as follows.
"1st. The said 6th article is -entirely annulled and made
void, as if it had never existed, all others remain in full force
as heretofore.
"2d., All the property of the society, real, personal and
mixed, inlaw or equity, and howsoever contributed or acquired
shall be deemed now and forever- joint and indivisible stock.
Each individual is to be considered to have finally and irrevocably parted with all his former contributions, whether in
land, goods, money or labor, and the same rule shall apply to
all future contributions whatever they may be.
"3d. Should. any individual withdraw from the society, or
depart this life, neither he in the one. case. nor his representatives in the other, shall be entitled to demand an account of
said contributions, Whether in land, goods, money or labor, or
to claim any thing from the society as a matter of right. But
it shall be left altogether to the discretion of the superintendent
to decide whether any, and if any, what allowance shall be
made to such member or his representatives as a donation.
"Invoking the blessing of God on thi' sacrifice of all narrow
and selfish feelings to thd true purposes of the association and
to the advancement of our own permanent prosperity and. happiness, we have signed the foregoing instrument, and iffixed
VOL. OLXXXVII-3

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
CHIEF JusTIcE FuLLER and

JUSTICE BREWEn, dissenting.

thereunto our respective seals, at Economy, this 31st day of

'October, 1836."
George Rapp, sole patriarch and ruler, died in 184'7, and
thereupon, in that year certain articles were subscribed by two
hundred and eighty-eight persons as the "surviving and reinaining members of the Harmonme Society, and constituting
the same." These articles created and nominated a Board of
Elders of nine members, with the power of filling vacancies,
and a Board of Trustees, consisting of two members of the
Board of Elders, which had power to fill vacancies in the
trusteeship. Instead of a single patriarch, a dual patriarchy
was substituted, and those boards alone had the power over
and control of the property
The eighth article was as follows
"It'is hereby distinctly and absolutely declared and provided
that all the property, real, personal and mixed, which now or
hereafter shall be held or acquired by any trustee or trustees,
or person under them, is and shall be deemed the common
property of said society, and each trustee now or hereafter appointed hereby disclaims all personal interest in the present
resources and future earnings of the society, other than that of
a member thereof, according to the articles of association
hereby established and continued, and according to the present
government."
'From these documents it appears that prior to October 31,
1836, all contributions of property were for the use and benefit
of the community on the condition that any member withdrawing was to receive back the value of his contributions.
But that by the contract of 1836, the property then held in
trust was no longer held subject to reclaoiation on the basis of
original contribution, but the whole aggregate was made a common fund in which each member was equally interested, subject to the previously existing trust for the use and benefit of
the society, that the corpus of the trust property included all
future contributions, accretions and accumulations, and that
the then and subsequently admitted members occupied the relation of donors and the society, as a society, of donee.
The joint and indivisible stock embraced all present and fu.

SCHWARTZ v. DUSS.
CHIEF JUSTICE FULLER and JUSTICE BREWEA, dissenting.

ture property subject to the trusts declared mi he articles of 1827,
which were reaffirmed in 1836, except the sixth article. That
trust was described "as a free gift or donation for the benefit and
use of the. said association." And by the agreement of- 184:T,
the property was to be held and deemed the common property
of said society, and each trustee disclaimed all personal interest
therein "other than that of a member thereof."
If then the trusts are defeated I concur in the view that the
trust property must go either to the owners or dofiors. living,
and to the heirs and legal representatives of those who are dead,
by way of resulting trust, or to the survi.ving members of the
society as joint tenants witi right of survivorship, or by way of
tontine.
It is true that the third clause of the agreement of 1836,
provided that on withdrawal, or death, no member, or his representatives, should be entitled to an account or "to claim
anything from the society as matter of right." But that clause referred to the society as a going concern, and this bill is not
filed against the society, but proceeds on the ground of the ter.mination of the trusts and the existence of a condition of things
demanding the winding up of the society's affairs.
And if the system of patriarchal government has been abandoned ; if for the communistic scheme, a capitalistic scheme has
been substituted, if the society has become a trading community and lost all its distinctive attributes, if it is undergoing the
process of liquidation, if all its property and assets have passed
to a trading corporation and the power of carrying out its original principles has departed, if its membership has become
practically incapable of perpetuation, it follows that the trusts
have been defeated and the society ended to all intents and purposes.
Early in 1890, John S. Duss and two others, employ6s but
not members of the society were elected to fill vacancies in the
Board of Elders.
In April, 1890, certain articles were executed, the number of
members being stated to be 45.
The Junior Trustee having died, John S. Duss was elected
to fill the vacancy, and soon after, with his wife and children,'

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
CEr

JUSTICE FULLER and JUSTICE BREWER,

dissenting.

took possession of the official residence of the society In 1892
the Senior Trustee died, and Duss was elected to that position,
one Sieber, the town constable, who had a wife, being elected
Junior Trustee. Later in that year other articles were entered
into, describing the then number of members as 37.
In February, 1893, certain members of the society filed a bill
for its dissolution, the winding up of its affairs and the distribution of its assets.
While the bill was pending, seventeen members received
from the assets loney and property to the amount of something over one hundred thousand dollars, and gave quitclaims
and acknowledgments of full satisfaction of their interest or
share in the property of the society The grantors in nearly
all of these instruments acknowledged in consideration of the
money paid or land conveyed, that he or she does "hereby release, cancel and discharge any and all claims whatsoever,
which I, my heirs, assigns or lawful representatives, may or
could ever have against said society or its trustees, its property
or assets, or any part thereof, I hereby declaring all such claims
to be fully compensated, settled, released and discharged,"
and, after reciting the various properties and assets, "I am
entirely satisfied to accept as my full share and interest therein,"
etc.
Two of the deeds contained this paragraph "While it may
be that said society may have and be the possessor of several
hundred thousand dollars worth of property after paying all
debts, I am entirely satisfied to accept as my full share therein
the sum of -

thousand dollars."

After these settlements began the bill was dismissed by consent.
In January, 1894, a corporation styled the Union Company
was organized, under the state statute, "for the purpose of the
purchase and sale of real estate, or for holding, leasing and selling real estat%" its business "to be transacted in the borough
of Beaver, county of Beaver, State of Pennsylvania."
On April 11, 1894, seventeen persons purporting to be all
the then members of the society, executed a paper stating
"We the members of said Harmnome Society, do each hereby

SCHWARTZ v. DUSS.
Cnfm

JusTIcE FUTLLEn and JUSTICE BiRwER, dissenting.

express our consent with and request that John S. Duss and
Gottlieb Riethmueller, the present trustees of said society, shall
forthwith sell, transfer and convey to the Umon Company- a
corporation duly created and organized under the laws of the
State of Pennsylvania, all the lands, tenements and hereditaments situated in the Allegheny and Beaver Counties Pennsyl:
vama, now owned and held by said trustees for the benefit of
the said society, to the end that all said lands, tenements and
hereditaments may be owned, held and managed by said incorporated company, and be sold and otherwise disposed of from
time to time in pursuance of proper corporate action as may
be determined by the directors and officers of said incorporated
company
"The capital stock of said incorporated company, however, to
be owned and held by the said trustees for the benefit of the
society, in accordance with, and on the terms and conditions of
the articles of association of Paid society and the ratifications
and modifications thereof, as the same now-exists, to the extent
of three hundred and- ninety-seven thousand five hundred
($397,500) dollars, out of a total capital of four hundred thousand ($400,000) dollars."
The vast property of the society was conveyed to the Union
Company, and the stock of that corporation assigned to the
trustees.
Since April 11, 1894, nine of the seventeen subscribers have
died, leaving eight, consisting of John S. Duss and his wife, one
Gillman, 77 years of age, and unable to read or speak English,
and, five women of the ages of 80, 77, 68, 54, and 47, respectively
Duss and Gillman became the sole remaining-male members
of the society and the women, with the exception of Mrs. Duss,
were mostly old, infirm or ignorant.
N o new member has been admitted since 1893. It is suggested that this was because none desired admission. This may
be so, and this would explain the diminishing of over fivehundred members in 1827 to two hundred and eighty-eight in 1847,
and forty-five in 1890. But the result is the same. The eight
remaining cannot reasonably be held to represent the great

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Cm:F JUSTICE FULLER

and JUSTicE

BREwER, dissenting.

communistic scheme which the Wurtembergers of 1803 sought
to found on "the basis of Christian Fellowship, the-principIes
of which being faithfully derived from the sacred Scriptures inelude the government of the patriarchal age, united to the community of property adopted in the days of the Apostles, and
wherein the single object sought is to approximate, so far as
human imperfection may allow, to the fulfillment of the will of
God, by the exercise of those affections, and the practice of
those virtues Which are essential to the happiness of man in
time and throughout eternity"
As the membership diminished the wealth increased, but not
from contributions- by new members, and operations were carried on by hired labor.
Not one of the eight contributed to the three or four millions
of property accumulated. It is conceded that Duss alone is the
active member. But he is not the society, nor does the society
in respect of its avowed principles any longer exist.
Moreover the transactions by which seventeen membersof the
society, not old and infirm, but vigorous and capable, were
bought out, were in themselves acts of liquidation. It is idle
to say that these payments were "donations" to withdrawing
members. They were purchases, in terms, and in effect. They
were settlements by agreement instead of through litigation.
Finally, substantially the entire property of the society and
its affairs have been turned over to acorporation ereated under
the laws of Pennsylvania, authorized to purchase and sell
land. This corporation has none of the powers confided by the
articles of 1841, to the Board of Elders and the Board of
Trustees. It has no power to feed, lodge, maintain and support,
or to care for the spiritual welfare of members of the society
or to perform any of the duties imposed upon the boards. The
trustees have no distinct title to the society's property, but only
the rights pertaining to the stock of the Umon Company All
the industries carried on in Economy are carried on by tenants
and lessees of the Union Company, and the society has ceased
to possess the power to carry out the purposes for which its
property was accumulated.
The affairs- of the Union Company must be wound up under

SCHWARTZ u. DUSS.
CmEF JUsTIcE FULLER and JUSTICE BREWER, dissenting.

the state statutes m that behalf, and proceeds derived from the
lands by sale or otherwise would go to the stockholders by way
of dividends. The legal effect of the transaction was the same
as a sale, out and out, for -cash, and it was irrevocable. And
this point so arises on the record that it must be disposed of as
matter of law
The master found, as matter of law, that the society continued
to exist because the surviving members had not formally declared it to be dissolved, and that the purposes and ptinciples
of the society could not be held to have-been abandoned unless
by the formal action of all its members. But this could only
be so on the assumption that the scheme of the trust created a
joint tenancy with the right of survivorship, or a system of
tontine; and that a single surviving member might be the
society although to the integrity of a *community,numbers are
essential. By the articles neither the members,. nor Llie Board
of Elders, nor the Board of Trustees, nor all together, possessed
the power voluntarily to formally dissolve the association, and
it is for a court of equity to adjudge whether a condition of
dissolution or a crondition requiring winding up is or is not
created by acts done or permitted.
Such being, in my opinion, the condition here, the trust property must go, as I have said, either to the surviving members
as joint tenants with right of survivorship, or by way of tontine, or to the owners or donors living, and to the heirs and
-legal representatives of those who are dead by way of resulting
trust.
Appellees contend for the first of these propositions. Their
counsel says in hi brief "It is the society, as a society, which
owns this property It is the entire body as one whole. If at
any time the society did dissolve, its property would go to the
persons who then were its members. No one else has any
legal or equitable claim to it except those members. To them,
and to them alone, it would belong, and among themit would
be diviced."
It is inconceivable that the creators of the trust contemplated
any such result, when 'they sought to perpetuate Christian fellowship by the renunciation of their .property.

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
CHIEF JUSTICE FULLER and JUSTICE BREWER, dissenting.

The present membership has shrunk to eight members, less
than enough to fill the Board of Elders, and that board consists
of Duss and his wife, an old man and five women, aged or ignorant. Practically Duss is the last survivor and he claims the
ownership of this vast estate as such survivor. By the articles
no period was fixed for the termination of the life of the society There is no remainder over, nor provision of any lnd for
the disposition of the trust estate in the event of the society's
extinction.
Joint tenancy with survivorship or tontine excluding all but
living members and casting accumulations on the survivor, are
neither'of them to be presumed. They are the result of express
agreement and there is none such in these documents.
On the contrary, this property was held in trust for the use
and benefit of the society as a society, and not for the individ-ual members. Th9 trust was for the use and benefit of the
society in the maintenance of its principles as declared by its
constitution and laws. When the purposes of the society were
abandoned, or could not be accomplished, or the society ceased
to exist, the trust failed, and the property reverted by way of
resulting trust to the owners, who subjected it to the trust, living, and to the heirs and legal representatives of those of them
who are dead.
This conclusion does not involve the assertion of a reversion
secured by the express terms of the contracts, but rests on the
familiar principle of equity jurisprudence that when the trust
clearly created by the documents terminated a resulting trust
arose to the grantors or donors or their heirs. The distinction
is thoroughly elucidated by -Mr. Justice Gray in HYopkins v.
G-zins-aw, 165 U. S. 342. It was there said, among other
things
"But the trust was restricted, in plain and unequivocal terms,
to the particular society to be benefited, as well as to the purpose of a burial ground, adding (as if to put the matter beyond
doubt) 'and for no other purpose whatever.' The trust would
end, therefore, at the latest, when the land ceased to be used as
a burial ground and the society was dissolved.
"In the case at bar, the trust created by the deed having

ROBINSON & CO. v. BELT.
Syllabus.

been terminated, according to its express provisions, by the
land ceasing to be used as a burial ground, and the dissolution
and extinction of the society for whose benefit the grant was
made, there arises, by a familiar principle of equity jurisprudence, a resulting trust'to the grantor and his heirs, whether
his conveyance was by way of gift, or for valuable consideration."
The titles held by the trustees in this- case were held for
the benefit and use of the society in the maintenance of its
principles. When the purposes of the trusts failed the propertv reverted, not because of special .provision to that effect,
but because that was the result of the termination of the
trusts.
Complainants, or some of them, are the hems and next of kin
of members who signed the articles of 1836 and 1847, and who
died in .fellowship. The service of one of these families is said
to aggregate three hundred years of unrequited toil. They are
entitled to invoke the aid of the court in the winding up of this
concern, and these decrees ought to be reversed.
I am authorized to state that MR.

JUSTIcE

BREwER concurs

in this dissent.

ROBINSON & CO. v. BELT.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE EIGHTH CIRCUIT.
No.46.

-Argued M1ay 2, 1902.-Decided October 27, 2902.

The question whether a general assignmentfor the benefit of creditors
is rendered invalid by reason of a provision that the "preferred
creditors shall accept their dividend in full satisfaction and discharge of their respective claims" is one determinable by the local
law of the urisdiction from which the question arises.

