FPC v. UNITED GAS PIPE LINE CO.
Per Curiam.

FEDERAL POWER COMMISSION v. UNITED
GAS PIPE LINE CO.
ON

PETITION FOR WHIT OF CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED
STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE FIFTH CIRCUIT.

No. 247.

Decided October 21, 1968.*

This Court previously sustained the formula of the Federal Power
Commission (FPC) for determining the tax component of respondent's cost of service but remanded the cases (386 U. S. 237) with
respect to whether it was significant in applying the formula that
respondent had both jurisdictional and nonjurisdictional income.
The Court of Appeals held that the issue had been sufficiently
raised by respondent's petition for rehearing before the FPC and
that the formula required that consolidated tax savings be first
allocated to respondent's nonjurisdictional income. Held: Since
the FPC did not disclose the basis for its order and did not "give
clear indication that it has exercised the discretion with which
Congress has empowered it," Phelps Dodge Corp. v. NLRB, 313
U. S. 177, 197, the cases were not in the proper posture for judicial
review and should have been remanded to the FPC for further
consideration.
Certiorari granted; 388 F. 2d 385, reversed and remanded.

Solicitor General Griswold, Harris Weinstein, Richard
A. Solomon, and Peter H. Schiff for petitioner in No. 247.
Reuben Goldberg and George E. Morrow for petitioner
in No. 248.
David T. Searls and Vernon W. Woods for respondent
in both cases.
PER CURIAM.

When these cases were here the first time, we sustained
the authority of the Federal Power Commission to determine the tax component of United's cost of service in
*Together with No. 248, Memphis Light, Gas & Water Division v.
United Gas Pipe Line Co., also on petition for writ of certiorari to
the same court.

OCTOBER TERM, 1968.
Per Curiam.

393 U. S.

accordance with the formula developed by it in Cities
Service Gas Co., 30 F. P. C. 158 (1963), but remanded the
cases with respect to whether in applying the Cities Service formula it was significant that United apparently had
both jurisdictional and nonjurisdictional activities and
income. FPC v. United Gas Pipe Line Co., 386 U. S. 237
(1967). Over the objections of the Commission, the
Court of Appeals held that the issue had been sufficiently
raised by United in its petition for rehearing before the
Commission in accordance with ยง 19 of the Natural Gas
Act, 52 Stat. 831, as amended, 15 U. S. C. ยง 717r, and
that the Cities Service formula required that consolidated
return tax savings coming to United be first allocated
to United's nonjurisdictional income.
The petitions for certiorari are granted and the judgment of the Court of Appeals is reversed.t Although
we acquiesce in the Court of Appeals' construction of
United's petition for rehearing filed with the Commission,
the issue on remand was not in the proper posture for final
determination by the Court of Appeals and should have
been remanded to the Commission for further consideration. It is true that the Commission in its opinion had
remarked that "United is largely a regulated company,
and we shall designate it as such for the purpose of these
computations." United Gas Pipe Line Co., 31 F. P. C.
1180, 1190 (1964). But the Commission made no effort
to justify this characterization of United in terms of the
findings, the fundamentals of the Cities Service formula,
or the applicable law. This may have been because the
adversary proceedings were primarily concerned with the
validity of the formula itself and never focused precisely
on the question of intra-company revenue and cost allocation. Whatever the reason, there was "no indication of
the basis on which the Commission exercised its expert
tThe motion for leave to use the record in the prior proceedings
before this Court, Nos. 127 and 128, October Term, 1966, is granted.

FPC v. UNITED GAS PIPE LINE CO.
71

Per Curiam.

discretion," no articulation of "any rational connection between the facts found and the choice made." Burlington
Truck Lines, Inc. v. United States, 371 U. S. 156, 167,
168 (1962). On this issue the Commission's order was
vulnerable on rehearing and in the Court of Appeals.
But it does not follow that the Court of Appeals, in
the face of the Commission's insistence that its decision
was wholly consistent with its Cities Service formula,
should have itself determined that consolidated return
savings be first allocated to nonjurisdictional income and
that "income from the unregulated component of United
is sufficiently large to absorb all such net tax losses and no
excess remains to reduce the regulated taxable income
of United." United Gas Pipe Line Co. v. FPC, 388 F.
2d 385, 391-392 (C. A. 5th Cir. 1968) (footnote omitted).
These questions should have had adequate attention from
the Commission in the first instance before being subjected to judicial review. Before the courts can properly
review agency action, the agency must disclose the basis
of its order and "give clear indication that it has exercised
the discretion with which Congress has empowered it,"
Phelps Dodge Corp. v.NLRB,313 U. S.177, 197 (1941);
otherwise the courts are propelled "into the domain which
Congress has set aside exclusively for the administrative
agency." SEC v. Chenery Corp., 332 U. S. 194, 196
(1947). The judgment of the Court of Appeals is reversed and the cases are remanded with instructions
to return the cases to the Commission for further
proceedings.
It isso ordered.
MR. JUSTICE FORTAS and MR. JUSTICE MARSHALL took
no part in the consideration or decision of these cases.

