EPPERSON v. ARKANSAS.
Syllabus.

EPPERSON ET AL. V. ARKANSAS.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF ARKANSAS.

No. 7.

Argued October 16, 1968.-Decided November 12, 1968.

Appellant Epperson, an Arkansas public school teacher, brought
this action for declaratory and injunctive relief challenging the
constitutionality of Arkansas' "anti-evolution" statute. That
statute makes it unlawful for a teacher in any state-supported
school or university to teach or to use a textbook that teaches
"that mankind ascended or descended from a lower order of
animals." The State Chancery Court held the statute an abridgment of free speech violating the First and Fourteenth Amendments. The State Supreme Court, expressing no opinion as to
whether the statute prohibits "explanation" of the theory or only
teaching that the theory is true, reversed the Chancery Court.
In a two-sentence opinion it sustained the statute as within the
State's power to specify the public school curriculum. Held: The
statute violates the Fourteenth Amendment, which embraces the
First Amendment's prohibition of state laws respecting an establishment of religion. Pp. 102-109.
(a) The Court does not decide whether the statute is unconstitutionally vague, since, whether it is construed to prohibit
explaining the Darwinian theory or teaching that it is true, the
law conflicts with the Establishment Clause. Pp. 102-103.
(b) The sole reason for the Arkansas law is that a particular
religious group considers the evolution theory to conflict with the
account of the origin of man set forth in the Book of Genesis.
Pp. 103, 107-109.
(c) The First Amendment mandates governmental neutrality
between religion and religion, and between religion and nonreligion.
Pp. 103-107.
(d) A State's right to prescribe the public school curriculum
does not include the right to prohibit teaching a scientific theory
or doctrine for reasons that run counter to the principles of the
First Amendment. P. 107.
(e) The Arkansas law is not a manifestation
neutrality. P. 109.
242 Ark. 922, 416 S. W. 2d 322, reversed.

of religious

OCTOBER TERM, 1968.
Opinion of the Court.

393 U. S.

Eugene R. Warren argued the cause for appellants.
With him on the brief was Bruce T. Bullion.
Don Langston, Assistant Attorney General of Arkansas,
argued the cause for appellee. With him on the brief
was Joe Purcell, Attorney General.
Briefs of amici curiae, urging reversal, were filed by
Leo Pfeffer, Melvin L. Wulf, and Joseph B. Robison for
the American Civil Liberties Union et al., and by PhilipJ.
Hirschkop for the National Education Association of the
United States et al.
MR. JUSTICE FORTAS delivered the opinion of the Court.
I.
This appeal challenges the constitutionality of the
"anti-evolution" statute which the State of Arkansas
adopted in 1928 to prohibit the teaching in its public
schools and universities of the theory that man evolved
from other species of life. The statute was a product
of the upsurge of "fundamentalist" religious fervor of
the twenties. The Arkansas statute was an adaptation
of the famous Tennessee "monkey law" which that State
adopted in 1925.' The constitutionality of the Tennessee law was upheld by the Tennessee Supreme Court in
the celebrated Scopes case in 1927.2
The Arkansas law makes it unlawful for a teacher
in any state-supported school or university "to teach the
1Chapter 27, Tenn. Acts 1925; Tenn. Code Ann. § 49-1922 (1966
Repl. Vol.).
2
Scopes v. State, 154 Tenn. 105, 289 S. W. 363 (1927). The
Tennessee court, however, reversed Scopes' conviction on the ground
that the jury and not the judge should have assessed the fine of
$100. Since Scopes was no longer in the State's employ, it saw
"nothing to be gained by prolonging the life of this bizarre case." It
directed that a nolle prosequi be entered, in the interests of "the
peace and dignity of the State." 154 Tenn., at 121,289 S. W., at 367.

EPPERSON v. ARKANSAS.
97

Opinion of the Court.

theory or doctrine that mankind ascended or descended
from a lower order of animals," or "to adopt or use in
any such institution a textbook that teaches" this theory.
Violation is a misdemeanor and subjects the violator to
dismissal from his position.!
The present case concerns the teaching of biology in
a high school in Little Rock. According to the testimony, until the events here in litigation, the official textbook furnished for the high school biology course did
not have a section on the Darwinian Theory. Then,
for the academic year 1965-1966, the school administration, on recommendation of the teachers of biology
in the school system, adopted and prescribed a textbook
which contained a chapter setting forth "the theory about
the origin . . . of man from a lower form of animal."
3 Initiated Act No. 1, Ark. Acts 1929; Ark. Stat. Ann. §§ 80-1627,
80-1628 (1960 Repl. Vol.). The text of the law is as follows:
"§ 80-1627.-Doctrine of ascent or descent of man from lower
order of animals prohibited.-It shall be unlawful for any teacher
or other instructor in any University, College, Normal, Public School,
or other institution of the State, which is supported in whole or in
part from public funds derived by State and local taxation to teach
the theory or doctrine that mankind ascended or descended from
a lower order of animals and also it shall be unlawful for any
teacher, textbook commission, or other authority exercising the
power to select textbooks for above mentioned educational institutions to adopt or use in any such institution a textbook that
teaches the doctrine or theory that mankind descended or ascended
from a lower order of animals.
"§ 80-1628.-Teaching doctrine or adopting textbook mentioning
doctrine-Penalties-Positions to be vacated.-Any teacher or other
instructor or textbook commissioner who is found guilty of violation
of this act by teaching the theory or doctrine mentioned in section 1
hereof, or by using, or adopting any such textbooks in any such
educational institution shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon
conviction shall be fined not exceeding five hundred dollars; and
upon conviction shall vacate the position thus held in any educational
institutions of the character above mentioned or any commission of
which he may be a member."
320-583 0 - 69 - 15

OCTOBER TERM, 1968.
Opinion of the Court.

393 U. S.

Susan Epperson, a young woman who graduated from
Arkansas' school system and then obtained her master's
degree in zoology at the University of Illinois, was employed by the Little Rock school system in the fall of 1964
to teach 10th grade biology at Central High School. At
the start of the next academic year, 1965, she was confronted by the new textbook (which one surmises from
the record was not unwelcome to her). She faced at
least a literal dilemma because she was supposed to use
the new textbook for classroom instruction and presumably to teach the statutorily condemned chapter;
but to do so would be a criminal offense and subject
her to dismissal.
She instituted the present action in the Chancery
Court of the State, seeking a declaration that the Arkansas statute is void and enjoining the State and the
defendant officials of the Little Rock school system from
dismissing her for violation of the statute's provisions.
H. H. Blanchard, a parent of children attending the
public schools, intervened in support of the action.
The Chancery Court, in an opinion by Chancellor
Murray 0. Reed, held that the statute violated the
Fourteenth Amendment to the United States Constitution.4 The court noted that this Amendment encompasses the prohibitions upon state interference with
freedom of speech and thought which are contained in the
First Amendment. Accordingly, it held that the challenged statute is unconstitutional because, in violation
of the First Amendment, it "tends to hinder the quest
for knowledge, restrict the freedom to learn, and restrain
the freedom to teach." ' In this perspective, the Act,
4 The

opinion of the Chancery Court is not officially reported.
5The Chancery Court analyzed the holding of its sister State
of Tennessee in the Scopes case sustaining Tennessee's similar statute.
It refused to follow Tennessee's 1927 example. It declined to confine the judicial horizon to a view of the law as merely a direction

EPPERSON v. ARKANSAS.
97

Opinion of the Court.

it held, was an unconstitutional and void restraint upon
the freedom of speech guaranteed by the Constitution.
On appeal, the Supreme Court of Arkansas reversed.6
Its two-sentence opinion is set forth in the margin.7
It sustained the statute as an exercise of the State's
power to specify the curriculum in public schools. It
did not address itself to the competing constitutional
considerations.
Appeal was duly prosecuted to this Court under 28
U. S. C. § 1257 (2). Only Arkansas and Mississippi
have such "anti-evolution" or "monkey" laws on their
books.' There is no record of any prosecutions in Arkanby the State as employer to its employees. This sort of astigmatism,
it held, would ignore overriding constitutional values, and "should

not be followed," and it proceeded to confront the substance of the
law and its effect.
6242

Ark. 922, 416 S. W. 2d 322 (1967).

7 "Per

Curiam. Upon the principal issue, that of constitutionality,
the court holds that Initiated Measure No. 1 of 1928, Ark. Stat.
Ann. § 80-1627 and § 80-1628 (Repl. 1960), is a valid exercise
of the state's power to specify the curriculum in its public schools.
The court expresses no opinion on the question whether the Act
prohibits any explanation of the theory of evolution or merely prohibits teaching that the theory is true; the answer not being necessary to a decision in the case, and the issue not having been raised.
"The decree is reversed and the cause dismissed.
"Ward, J., concurs. Brown, J., dissents.
"Paul Ward, Justice, concurring. I agree with the first sentence
in the majority opinion.
"To my mind, the rest of the opinion beclouds the clear announcement made in the first sentence."
8 Miss. Code Ann. §§ 6798, 6799 (1942).
Ark. Stat. Ann. §§ 801627, 80-1628 (1960 Repl. Vol.). The Tennessee law was repealed
in 1967. Oklahoma enacted an anti-evolution law, but it was repealed in 1926. The Florida and Texas Legislatures, in the period
between 1921 and 1929, adopted resolutions against teaching the
doctrine of evolution. In all, during that period, bills to this effect
were introduced in 20 States. American Civil Liberties Union
(ACLU), The Gag on Teaching 8 (2d ed., 1937).

OCTOBER TERM, 1968.
Opinion of the Court.

393 U. S.

sas under its statute. It is possible that the statute is
presently more of a curiosity than a vital fact of life in
these States.' Nevertheless, the present case was
brought, the appeal as of right is properly here, and
it is our duty to decide the issues presented.
II.
At the outset, it is urged upon us that the challenged
statute is vague and uncertain and therefore within the
condemnation of the Due Process Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. The contention that the Act is
vague and uncertain is supported by language in the
brief opinion of Arkansas' Supreme Court. That court,
perhaps reflecting the discomfort which the statute's
quixotic prohibition necessarily engenders in the modern
mind,' stated that it "expresses no opinion" as to
whether the Act prohibits "explanation" of the theory
of evolution or merely forbids "teaching that the theory
is true." Regardless of this uncertainty, the court held
that the statute is constitutional.
On the other hand, counsel for the State, in oral argument in this Court, candidly stated that, despite the
State Supreme Court's equivocation, Arkansas would
interpret the statute "to mean that to make a student
aware of the theory . . . just to teach that there was
9 Clarence Darrow, who was counsel for the defense in the Scopes
trial, in his biography published in 1932, somewhat sardonically
pointed out that States with anti-evolution laws did not insist upon
the fundamentalist theory in all respects. He said: "I understand
that the States of Tennessee and Mississippi both continue to teach
that the earth is round and that the revolution on its axis brings the
day and night, in spite of all opposition." The Story of My Life 247
(1932).
10 R. Hofstadter & W. Metzger, in The Development of Academic
Freedom in the United States 324 (1955), refer to some of Darwin's
opponents as "exhibiting a kind of phylogenetic snobbery [which led
them] to think that Darwin had libeled the [human] race by discovering simian rather than seraphic ancestors."

EPPERSON v. ARKANSAS.
97

Opinion of the Court.

such a theory" would be grounds for dismissal and for
prosecution under the statute; and he said "that the
Supreme Court of Arkansas' opinion should be interpreted in that manner." He said: "If Mrs. Epperson
would tell her students that 'Here is Darwin's theory,
that man ascended or descended from a lower form of
being,' then I think she would be under this statute liable
for prosecution."
In any event, we do not rest our decision upon the
asserted vagueness of the statute. On either interpretation of its language, Arkansas' statute cannot stand.
It is of no moment whether the law is deemed to prohibit mention of Darwin's theory, or to forbid any or
all of the infinite varieties of communication embraced
within the term "teaching." Under either interpretation, the law must be stricken because of its conflict
with the constitutional prohibition of state laws respecting an establishment of religion or prohibiting the free
exercise thereof. The overriding fact is that Arkansas'
law selects from the body of knowledge a particular
segment which it proscribes for the sole reason that it
is deemed to conflict with a particular religious doctrine;
that is, with a particular interpretation of the Book of
Genesis by a particular religious group."
III.
The antecedents of today's decision are many and
unmistakable. They are rooted in the foundation soil
of our Nation. They are fundamental to freedom.
Government in our democracy, state and national,
must be neutral in matters of religious theory, doctrine,
"In Scopes v. State, 154 Tenn. 105, 126, 289 S. W. 363, 369
(1927), Judge Chambliss, concurring, referred to the defense contention that Tennessee's anti-evolution law gives a "preference" to
"religious establishments which have as one of their tenets or dogmas
the instantaneous creation of man."

OCTOBER TERM, 1968.
Opinion of the Court.

393 U. S.

and practice. It may not be hostile to any religion or
to the advocacy of no-religion; and it may not aid, foster,
or promote one religion or religious theory against
another or even against the militant opposite. The
First Amendment mandates governmental neutrality
between religion and religion, and between religion and
nonreligion."2
As early as 1872, this Court said: "The law knows
no heresy, and is committed to the support of no dogma,
the establishment of no sect." Watson v. Jones, 13 Wall.
679, 728. This has been the interpretation of the great
First Amendment which this Court has applied in the
many and subtle problems which the ferment of our
national life has presented for decision within the
Amendment's broad command.
Judicial interposition in the operation of the public
school system of the Nation raises problems requiring
care and restraint. Our courts, however, have not failed
to apply the First Amendment's mandate in our educational system where essential to safeguard the fundamental values of freedom of speech and inquiry and of
belief. By and large, public education in our Nation is
committed to the control of state and local authorities.
Courts do not and cannot intervene in the resolution of
conflicts which arise in the daily operation of school
systems and which do not directly and sharply implicate
basic constitutional values. 3 On the other hand, "[t]he
vigilant protection of constitutional freedoms is nowhere
more vital than in the community of American schools,"
Shelton v. Tucker, 364 U. S. 479, 487 (1960). As this
12Everson

v. Board of Education, 330 U. S. 1, 18 (1947); Mc-

Collum v. Board of Education, 333 U. S. 203 (1948); Zorach v.
Clauson, 343 U. S. 306, 313-314 (1952); Fowler v. Rhode Island, 345
U. S. 67 (1953); Torcaso v. Watkins, 367 U. S. 488, 495 (1961).
13 See the discussion in Developments in The Law-Academic
Freedom, 81 Harv. L. Rev. 1045, 1051-1055 (1968).

EPPERSON v. ARKANSAS.
97

Opinion of the Court.

Court said in Keyishian v. Board of Regents, the First
Amendment "does not tolerate laws that cast a pall of orthodoxy over the classroom." 385 U. S. 589, 603 (1967).
The earliest cases in this Court on the subject of the
impact of constitutional guarantees upon the classroom
were decided before the Court expressly applied the specific prohibitions of the First Amendment to the States.
But as early as 1923, the Court did not hesitate to condemn under the Due Process Clause "arbitrary" restrictions upon the freedom of teachers to teach and of
students to learn. In that year, the Court, in an opinion
by Justice McReynolds, held unconstitutional an Act
of the State of Nebraska making it a crime to teach any
subject in any language other than English to pupils
who had not passed the eighth grade. 4 The State's
purpose in enacting the law was to promote civic cohesiveness by encouraging the learning of English and to
combat the "baneful effect" of permitting foreigners to
rear and educate their children in the language of the
parents' native land. The Court recognized these purposes, and it acknowledged the State's power to prescribe the school curriculum, but it held that these were
not adequate to support the restriction upon the liberty
of teacher and pupil. The challenged statute, it held,
unconstitutionally interfered with the right of the individual, guaranteed by the Due Process Clause, to engage in any of the common occupations of life and to
acquire useful knowledge. Meyer v. Nebraska, 262 U. S.
390 (1923). See also Bartelsv. Iowa, 262 U. S. 404 (1923).
For purposes of the present case, we need not re-enter
the difficult terrain which the Court, in 1923, traversed
without apparent misgivings. We need not take advantage of the broad premise which the Court's decision
"4The case involved a conviction for teaching "the subject of
reading in the German language" to a child of 10 years.

OCTOBER TERM, 1968.
Opinion of the Court.

393 U. S.

in Meyer furnishes, nor need we explore the implications
of that decision in terms of the justiciability of the multitude of controversies that beset our campuses today.
Today's problem is capable of resolution in the narrower
terms of the First Amendment's prohibition of laws
respecting an establishment of religion or prohibiting the
free exercise thereof.
There is and can be no doubt that the First Amendment does not permit the State to require that teaching
and learning must be tailored to the principles or prohibitions of any religious sect or dogma. In Everson v.
Board of Education, this Court, in upholding a state law
to provide free bus service to school children, including
those attending parochial schools, said: "Neither [a State
nor the Federal Government] can pass laws which aid
one religion, aid all religions, or prefer one religion over
another." 330 U. S. 1, 15 (1947).
At the following Term of Court, in McCollum v. Board
of Education, 333 U. S. 203 (1948), the Court held that
Illinois could not release pupils from class to attend
classes of instruction in the school buildings in the religion of their choice. This, it said, would involve the
State in using tax-supported property for religious
purposes, thereby breaching the "wall of separation"
which, according to Jefferson, the First Amendment
was intended to erect between church and state. Id., at
211. See also Engel v. Vitale, 370 U. S. 421 (1962);
Abington School District v. Schempp, 374 U. S. 203
(1963). While study of religions and of the Bible from
a literary and historic viewpoint, presented objectively
as part of a secular program of education, need not collide with the First Amendment's prohibition, the State
may not adopt programs or practices in its public schools
or colleges which "aid or oppose" any religion. Id.,
at 225. This prohibition is absolute. It forbids alike
the preference of a religious doctrine or the prohibition

EPPERSON v. ARKANSAS.
97

Opinion of the Court.

of theory which is deemed antagonistic to a particular
dogma. As Mr. Justice Clark stated in Joseph Burstyn,
Inc. v. Wilson, "the state has no legitimate interest in
protecting any or all religions from views distasteful to
them . . . ." 343 U. S.495, 505 (1952). The test was
stated as follows in Abington School District v. Schempp,
supra, at 222: "[W]hat are the purpose and the primary
effect of the enactment? If either is the advancement
or inhibition of religion then the enactment exceeds
the scope of legislative power as circumscribed by the
Constitution."
These precedents inevitably determine the result in
the present case. The State's undoubted right to prescribe the curriculum for its public schools does not carry
with it the right to prohibit, on pain of criminal penalty,
the teaching of a scientific theory or doctrine where that
prohibition is based upon reasons that violate the First
Amendment. It is much too late to argue that the State
may impose upon the teachers in its schools any conditions that it chooses, however restrictive they may be
of constitutional guarantees. Keyishian v. Board of
Regents, 385 U. S.589, 605-606 (1967).
In the present case, there can be no doubt that Arkansas has sought to prevent its teachers from discussing
the theory of evolution because it is contrary to the
belief of some that the Book of Genesis must be the
exclusive source of doctrine as to the origin of man.
No suggestion has been made that Arkansas' law may
be justified by considerations of state policy other than
the religious views of some of its citizens." It is clear
15 Former Dean Leflar of the University of Arkansas School of
Law has stated that "the same ideological considerations underlie
the anti-evolution enactment" as underlie the typical blasphemy
statute. He says that the purpose of these statutes is an "ideological" one which "involves an effort to prevent (by censorship)
or punish the presentation of intellectually significant matter which

OCTOBER TERM, 1968.
Opinion of the Court.

393 U. S.

that fundamentalist sectarian conviction was and is
the law's reason for existence." Its antecedent, Tennessee's "monkey law," candidly stated its purpose: to make
it unlawful "to teach any theory that denies the story
of the Divine Creation of man as taught in the Bible,
and to teach instead that man has descended from a
contradicts accepted social, moral or religious ideas." Leflar, Legal
Liability for the Exercise of Free Speech, 10 Ark. L. Rev. 155, 158
(1956). See also R. Hofstadter & W. Metzger, The Development of
Academic Freedom in the United States 320-366 (1955) (passim);
H. Beale, A History of Freedom of Teaching in American Schools
202-207 (1941); Emerson & Haber, The Scopes Case in Modem
Dress, 27 U. Chi. L. Rev. 522 (1960); Waller, The Constitutionality
of the Tennessee Anti-Evolution Act, 35 Yale L. J. 191 (1925)
(passim); ACLU, The Gag on Teaching 7 (2d ed., 1937); J. Scopes
& J. Presley, Center of the Storm 45-53 (1967).
16 The following advertisement is typical of the public appeal
which was used in the campaign to secure adoption of the statute:
"THE BIBLE OR ATHEISM, WHICH?
"All atheists favor evolution. If you agree with atheism vote
against Act No. 1. If you agree with the Bible vote for Act
No. 1.. . . Shall conscientious church members be forced to pay
taxes to support teachers to teach evolution which will undermine
the faith of their children? The Gazette said Russian Bolshevists
laughed at Tennessee. True, and that sort will laugh at Arkansas.
Who cares? Vote FOR ACT NO. 1." The Arkansas Gazette, Little
Rock, Nov. 4, 1928, p. 12, cols. 4-5.
Letters from the public expressed the fear that teaching of evolution would be "subversive of Christianity," id., Oct. 24, 1928, p. 7,
col. 2; see also id., Nov. 4, 1928, p. 19, col. 4; and that it would
cause school children "to disrespect the Bible," id., Oct. 27, 1928,
p. 15, col. 5. One letter read: "The cosmogony taught by [evolution] runs contrary to that of Moses and Jesus, and as such is
nothing, if anything at all, but atheism. . . . Now let the mothers
and fathers of our state that are trying to raise their children in
the Christian faith arise in their might and vote for this antievolution bill that will take it out of our tax supported schools.
When they have saved the children, they have saved the state."
Id., at cols. 4-5.

EPPERSON v. ARKANSAS.
97

BLACK,

J., concurring.

lower order of animals." 17 Perhaps the sensational publicity attendant upon the Scopes trial induced Arkansas
to adopt less explicit language.18 It eliminated Tennessee's reference to "the story of the Divine Creation

of man" as taught in the Bible, but there is no doubt
that the motivation for the law was the same: to suppress
the teaching of a theory which, it was thought, "denied"
the divine creation of man.
Arkansas' law cannot be defended as an act of religious
neutrality. Arkansas did not seek to excise from the
curricula of its schools and universities all discussion of
the origin of man. The law's effort was confined to an
attempt to blot out a particular theory because of its supposed conflict with the Biblical account, literally read.
Plainly, the law is contrary to the mandate of the First,
and in violation of the Fourteenth, Amendment to the
Constitution.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of Arkansas is
Reversed.
concurring.
I am by no means sure that this case presents a genuinely justiciable case or controversy. Although Arkansas Initiated Act No. 1, the statute alleged to be
unconstitutional, was passed by the voters of Arkansas
in 1928, we are informed that there has never been even
a single attempt by the State to enforce it. And the
pallid, unenthusiastic, even apologetic defense of the
Act presented by the State in this Court indicates that
the State would make no attempt to enforce the law
MR. JUSTICE BLACK,

17 Arkansas' law was adopted by popular initiative in 1928, three
years after Tennessee's law was enacted and one year after the
Tennessee Supreme Court's decision in the Scopes case, supra.
18 In its brief, the State says that the Arkansas statute was passed
with the holding of the Scopes case in mind. Brief for Appellee 1.

OCTOBER TERM, 1968.
BLACK, J.,

concurring.

393 U. S.

should it remain on the books for the next century. Now,
nearly 40 years after the law has slumbered on the
books as though dead, a teacher alleging fear that the
State might arouse from its lethargy and try to punish
her has asked for a declaratory judgment holding the
law unconstitutional. She was subsequently joined by
a parent who alleged his interest in seeing that his two
then school-age sons "be informed of all scientific theories and hypotheses . . . ." But whether this Arkansas
teacher is still a teacher, fearful of punishment under the
Act, we do not know. It may be, as has been published
in the daily press, that she has long since given up her
job as a teacher and moved to a distant city, thereby
escaping the dangers she had imagined might befall her
under this lifeless Arkansas Act. And there is not one
iota of concrete evidence to show that the parentintervenor's sons have not been or will not be taught
about evolution. The textbook adopted for use in biology
classes in Little Rock includes an entire chapter dealing
with evolution. There is no evidence that this chapter
is not being freely taught in the schools that use the textbook and no evidence that the intervenor's sons, who
were 15 and 17 years old when this suit was brought
three years ago, are still in high school or yet to take
biology. Unfortunately, however, the State's languid
interest in the case has not prompted it to keep this
Court informed concerning facts that might easily justify
dismissal of this alleged lawsuit as moot or as lacking the
qualities of a genuine case or controversy.
Notwithstanding my own doubts as to whether the
case presents a justiciable controversy, the Court brushes
aside these doubts and leaps headlong into the middle of
the very broad problems involved in federal intrusion
into state powers to decide what subjects and schoolbooks it may wish to use in teaching state pupils.
While I hesitate to enter into the consideration and deci-

EPPERSON v. ARKANSAS.

97

BLACK,

J., concurring.

sion of such sensitive state-federal relationships, I reluctantly acquiesce. But, agreeing to consider this as a
genuine case or controversy, I cannot agree to thrust the
Federal Government's long arm the least bit further
into state school curriculums than decision of this particular case requires. And the Court, in order to invalidate
the Arkansas law as a violation of the First Amendment,
has been compelled to give the State's law a broader
meaning than the State Supreme Court was willing to
give it. The Arkansas Supreme Court's opinion, in its
entirety, stated that:
"Upon the principal issue, that of constitutionality, the court holds that Initiated Measure No. 1
of 1928, Ark. Stat. Ann. § 80-1627 and § 80-1628
(Repl. 1960), is a valid exercise of the state's power
to specify the curriculum in its public schools. The
court expresses no opinion on the question whether
the Act prohibits any explanation of the theory of
evolution or merely prohibits teaching that the
theory is true; the answer not being necessary to a
decision in the case, and the issue not having been
raised."
It is plain that a state law prohibiting all teaching
of human development or biology is constitutionally
quite different from a law that compels a teacher to teach
as true only one theory of a given doctrine. It would
be difficult to make a First Amendment case out of a
state law eliminating the subject of higher mathematics,
or astronomy, or biology from its curriculum. And, for
all the Supreme Court of Arkansas has said, this particular Act may prohibit that and nothing else. This
Court, however, treats the Arkansas Act as though it
made it a misdemeanor to teach or to use a book that
teaches that evolution is true. But it is not for this
Court to arrogate to itself the power to determine the
scope of Arkansas statutes. Since the highest court of

OCTOBER TERM, 1968.
BLACK,

J., concurring.

393 U. S.

Arkansas has deliberately refused to give its statute that
meaning, we should not presume to do so.
It seems to me that in this situation the statute is
too vague for us to strike it down on any ground but
that: vagueness. Under this statute as construed by the
Arkansas Supreme Court, a teacher cannot know whether
he is forbidden to mention Darwin's theory at all or
only free to discuss it as long as he refrains from contending that it is true. It is an established rule that a
statute which leaves an ordinary man so doubtful about
its meaning that he cannot know when he has violated
it denies him the first essential of due process. See, e. g.,
Connally v. General Construction Co., 269 U. S. 385,
391 (1926). Holding the statute too vague to enforce
would not only follow long-standing constitutional precedents but it would avoid having this Court take unto
itself the duty of a State's highest court to interpret
and mark the boundaries of the State's laws. And, more
important, it would not place this Court in the unenviable position of violating the principle of leaving the
States absolutely free to choose their own curriculums for
their own schools so long as their action does not palpably
conflict with a clear constitutional command.
The Court, not content to strike down this Arkansas
Act on the unchallengeable ground of its plain vagueness,
chooses rather to invalidate it as a violation of the
Establishment of Religion Clause of the First Amendment. I would not decide this case on such a sweeping
ground for the following reasons, among others.
1. In the first place I find it difficult to agree with
the Court's statement that "there can be no doubt that
Arkansas has sought to prevent its teachers from discussing the theory of evolution because it is contrary
to the belief of some that the Book of Genesis must
be the exclusive source of doctrine as to the origin
of man." It may be instead that the people's motive
was merely that it would be best to remove this contro-

EPPERSON v. ARKANSAS.
97

BLACK, J., concurring.

versial subject from its schools; there is no reason I
can imagine why a State is without power to withdraw
from its curriculum any subject deemed too emotional
and controversial for its public schools. And this Court
has consistently held that it is not for us to invalidate
a statute because of our views that the "motives" behind
its passage were improper; it is simply too difficult to
determine what those motives were. See, e. g., United
States v. O'Brien, 391 U. S. 367, 382-383 (1968).
2. A second question that arises for me is whether this
Court's decision forbidding a State to exclude the subject of evolution from its schools infringes the religious
freedom of those who consider evolution an anti-religious
doctrine. If the theory is considered anti-religious, as
the Court indicates, how can the State be bound by
the Federal Constitution to permit its teachers to advocate such an "anti-religious" doctrine to schoolchildren?
The very cases cited by the Court as supporting its conclusion hold that the State must be neutral, not favoring
one religious or anti-religious view over another. The
Darwinian theory is said to challenge the Bible's story
of creation; so too have some of those who believe in the
Bible, along with many others, challenged the Darwinian
theory. Since there is no indication that the literal
Biblical doctrine of the origin of man is included in the
curriculum of Arkansas schools, does not the removal
of the subject of evolution leave the State in a neutral
position toward these supposedly competing religious
and anti-religious doctrines? Unless this Court is prepared simply to write off as pure nonsense the views of
those who consider evolution an anti-religious doctrine,
then this issue presents problems under the Establishment Clause far more troublesome than are discussed
in the Court's opinion.
3. I am also not ready to hold that a person hired to
teach school children takes with him into the classroom
a constitutional right to teach sociological, economic,

OCTOBER TERM, 1968.
HARLAN,

J., concurring.

393 U. S.

political, or religious subjects that the school's managers
do not want discussed. This Court has said that the
rights of free speech "while fundamental in our democratic society, still do not mean that everyone with opinions or beliefs to express may address a group at any
public place and at any time." Cox v. Louisiana, 379
U. S. 536, 554; Cox v. Louisiana, 379 U. S. 559, 574.
I question whether it is absolutely certain, as the Court's
opinion indicates, that "academic freedom" permits a
teacher to breach his contractual agreement to teach
only the subjects designated by the school authorities
who hired him.
Certainly the Darwinian theory, precisely like the
Genesis story of the creation of man, is not above challenge. In fact the Darwinian theory has not merely
been criticized by religionists but by scientists, and perhaps no scientist would be willing to take an oath and
swear that everything announced in the Darwinian
theory is unquestionably true. The Court, it seems to
me, makes a serious mistake in bypassing the plain,
unconstitutional vagueness of this statute in order to
reach out and decide this troublesome, to me, First
Amendment question. However wise this Court may
be or may become hereafter, it is doubtful that, sitting
in Washington, it can successfully supervise and censor
the curriculum of every public school in every hamlet
and city in the United States. I doubt that our wisdom
is so nearly infallible.
I would either strike down the Arkansas Act as too
vague to enforce, or remand to the State Supreme Court
for clarification of its holding and opinion.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN,

concurring.

I think it deplorable that this case should have come
to us with such an opaque opinion by the State's highest
court. With all respect, that court's handling of the

EPPERSON v. ARKANSAS.
97

STEWART, J., concurring in result.

case savors of a studied effort to avoid coming to grips
with this anachronistic statute and to "pass the buck"
to this Court. This sort of temporizing does not make
for healthy operations between the state and federal
judiciaries. Despite these observations, I am in agreement with this Court's opinion that, the constitutional
claims having been properly raised and necessarily decided
below, resolution of the matter by us cannot properly
be avoided.* See, e. g., Chicago Life Insurance Co. v.
Needles, 113 U. S. 574, 579 (1885).
I concur in so much of the Court's opinion as holds that
the Arkansas statute constitutes an "establishment of
religion" forbidden to the States by the Fourteenth
Amendment. I do not understand, however, why the
Court finds it necessary to explore at length appellants'
contentions that the statute is unconstitutionally vague
and that it interferes with free speech, only to conclude
that these issues need not be decided in this case. In the
process of not deciding them, the Court obscures its
otherwise straightforward holding, and opens its opinion
to possible implications from which I am constrained
to disassociate myself.
concurring in the result.
The States are most assuredly free "to choose their
own curriculums for their own schools." A State is enMR. JUSTICE STEWART,

*Short of reading the Arkansas Supreme Court's opinion to have
proceeded on the premise that it need not consider appellants' "estab-

lishment" contention, clearly raised in the state courts and here, in
view of its holding that the State possesses plenary power to fix the
curriculum in its public schools, I can perceive no tenable basis for
remanding the case to the state court for an explication of the
purpose and meaning of the statute in question. I am unwilling
to ascribe to the Arkansas Supreme Court any such quixotic approach to constitutional adjudication. I take the first sentence
of its opinion (ante, at 101, n. 7) to encompass an overruling of
appellants' "establishment" point, and the second sentence to refer
only to their "vagueness" claim.
320-583 0 - 69 - 16

OCTOBER TERM, 1968.
STEWART,

J., concurring in result.

393 U. S.

tirely free, for example, to decide that the only foreign
language to be taught in its public school system shall be
Spanish. But would a State be constitutionally free to
punish a teacher for letting his students know that other
languages are also spoken in the world? I think not.
It is one thing for a State to determine that "the subject of higher mathematics, or astronomy, or biology"
shall or shall not be included in its public school curriculum. It is quite another thing for a State to make it
a criminal offense for a public school teacher so much as
to mention the very existence of an entire system of
respected human thought. That kind of criminal law,
I think, would clearly impinge upon the guarantees of
free communication contained in the First Amendment,
and made applicable to the States by the Fourteenth.
The Arkansas Supreme Court has said that the statute
before us may or may not be just such a law. The result,

as MR.

JUSTICE BLACK

points out, is that "a teacher

cannot know whether he is forbidden to mention Darwin's theory at all." Since I believe that no State could
constitutionally forbid a teacher "to mention Darwin's
theory at all," and since Arkansas may, or may not, have
done just that, I conclude that the statute before us is so
vague as to be invalid under the Fourteenth Amendment.
See Cramp v. Board of Pub. Instruction, 368 U. S. 278.

