DUNBAR-STANLEY

STUDIOS v. ALABAMA.

537

Syllabus.

DUNBAR-STANLEY STUDIOS, INC. v. ALABAMA.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF ALABAMA.

No. 376. Argued January 16, 1969.-Decided February 25, 1969.
Appellant, a photography firm incorporated and having its principal office and its processing plant in North Carolina, was under
contract with the J. C. Penney Co. to send appellant's photographers (nonresidents of Alabama) to the Penney stores in eight
cities in Alabama for a few days several times a year to photograph children. Each store advertised the service, took orders,
provided studio space, arranged for sittings, collected the money,
and delivered the pictures. Appellant, which received a percentage
of the receipts, took the pictures, processed them in North Carolina, and mailed the photographs to the Penney stores. Alabama
imposes a license tax on a photographer for each county, town, or
city where he operates. In the case of a photographer or a gallery
"at a fixed location" the maximum tax is $25 per year in the largest
cities. The tax is $5 per week for a transient photographer. Appellant sought declaratory relief in the Alabama courts, alleging
that the Commerce Clause of the Constitution barred imposition of
the transient photographer's tax on its activities. The lower court
upheld the tax and the Alabama Supreme Court affirmed. Held:
1. Appellant was engaged in the essentially local activity of
taking pictures. Appellant could constitutionally be made subject to local taxation for engaging in that local activity. Pp.
539-541.
2. Alabama's tax does not discriminate against interstate commerce, since it is levied equally on interstate and intrastate transient photographers and on the record here the tax on out-of-state
photographers is not so disproportionate to the tax on fixedlocation photographers as to come within the condemnation of the
Constitution. P. 542.
282 Ala. 221, 210 So. 2d 696, affirmed.

J. Edward Thornton argued the cause for appellant.
With him on the briefs was Glen B. Hardymon.
William H. Burton, Assistant Attorney General of
Alabama, argued the cause for appellee. With him on
the brief were MacDonald Gallion, Attorney General,
and Willard W. Livingston, Assistant Attorney General.

OCTOBER TERM, 1968.
Opinion of the Court.

393 U. S.

MR. JUSTICE FORTAS delivered the opinion of the Court.
Alabama levies a tax upon photograph galleries and
persons engaged in photography. If the business is conducted "at a fixed location," the tax in the large cities'
is $25 a year for each such location. For each "transient or traveling photographer," the tax is $5 per week
for each county, town, or city in which he plies his
trade.'
This case involves state assessments of the transient
photographers tax against appellant and its predecessor
partnership.3 Appellant sought a declaration from the
state courts that the assessment was improper, claiming
that the tax was levied upon interstate commerce, in
conflict with the Commerce Clause of the Constitution.
The Supreme Court of Alabama sustained the tax. 282
Ala. 221, 210 So. 2d 696 (1968). We affirm.
Appellant is a photography firm specializing in selling
photographs of children. It is organized as a North
Carolina corporation and its principal office and process'For smaller towns, the rate is stepped down. The lowest rate
is $3 a year for localities with fewer than 1,000 inhabitants.
2 Title 51, Code of Alabama ยง 569, prior to its amendment in
1967, read as follows:
"Photographers and photograph galleries. Every photograph gallery, or person engaged in photography, when the business is
conducted at a fixed location: In cities and towns of seventy-five
thousand inhabitants and over, twenty-five dollars; in cities and
towns of less than seventy-five thousand and not less than forty
thousand inhabitants, fifteen dollars; in cities and towns of less
than forty thousand and not less than seven thousand inhabitants,
ten dollars; in cities and towns of less than seven thousand and over
one thousand inhabitants, five dollars; in all other places whether
incorporated or not, three dollars. The payment of the license
required in this section shall authorize the doing of business only
in the town, city or county where paid. For each transient or
traveling photographer, five dollars per week."
3 No point has been made as to the identity of the taxpayer
or its liability for the tax if it may be constitutionally levied.

DUNBAR-STANLEY STUDIOS v. ALABAMA.
537

539

Opinion of the Court.

ing plant are in Charlotte, North Carolina. It has no
office or place of business in Alabama, nor does it maintain an inventory there. Its activities in that State
stem from a contract between appellant and J. C. Penney
Co. Penney operates department stores in eight cities
in Alabama, as well as elsewhere in the Nation. By
the terms of the contract, as summarized in the complaint, appellant's photographers, nonresidents of Alabama, "were at the disposal of the local Penney stores.
The local store manager requested Appellant to send representatives for picture taking on specified dates."
During the period for which the tax has been assessed,
appellant's photographers were sent to J. C. Penney
stores in eight Alabama cities. According to the complaint, each visit lasted two to five days, and each city
was visited from one to five times a year.
The Penney stores advertised the photographic service,
inviting parents to bring their children to be photographed during the visit by appellant's photographer.
Each store took the order for the photographs, arranged
the time for the sitting, provided a place in the store for
the temporary studio, collected the money, and delivered
the pictures to the customer when completed. Appellant
was paid a percentage of the receipts from the Penney
stores.
Appellant's activities were limited to taking the pictures, transmitting the exposed film to its office in North
Carolina where it was developed, printed, and finished,
and mailing the finished prints to the Penney stores in
Alabama.
It is clear from the taxing statute itself and from the
decisions of the Supreme Court of Alabama that the tax
is laid upon the distinctive business of the photographer,
not upon the soliciting of orders or the processing of film.
Graves v. State, 258 Ala. 359, 62 So. 2d 446 (1952);
Haden v. Olan Mills, Inc., 273 Ala. 129, 135 So. 2d 388

OCTOBER TERM, 1968.
Opinion of the Court.

393 U. S.

(1961). Appellant argues that since each of its photographers came into Alabama from North Carolina to ply
his trade, bringing his equipment with him, and since
he merely exposed his film in Alabama, the developing,
printing, and finishing operation being conducted in
North Carolina, his activities in Alabama are an inseparable part of interstate commerce and cannot constitutionally be subject to the Alabama license tax. Appellant
relies upon familiar cases decided by this Court holding
that the Commerce Clause precludes a state-imposed
flat sum privilege tax on an interstate enterprise whose
only contact with the taxing State is the solicitation of
orders and the subsequent delivery of merchandise within
the taxing State. West Point Wholesale Grocery Co. v.
Opelika, 354 U. S. 390 (1957); Memphis Steam Laundry
Cleaner, Inc. v. Stone, 342 U. S. 389 (1952); Nippert v.
City of Richmond, 327 U. S. 416 (1946). Such taxes
have a substantial inhibitory effect on commerce which
is essentially interstate.
But these cases are not applicable to the present facts.
In determining whether a state tax imposes an impermissible burden on interstate commerce, the issue is
whether the local activity which is made the nominal
subject of the tax is "such an integral part of the interstate process, the flow of commerce, that it cannot realistically be separated from it." Michigan-Wisconsin
Pipe Line Co. v. Calvert, 347 U. S. 157, 166 (1954). If,
for example, a license tax were imposed on the acts of
engaging in soliciting orders or making deliveries, conflict
with the Commerce Clause would be evident because
these are minimal activities within a State without which
there can be no interstate commerce. But in the present
case, the "taxable event," as defined by the State's courts,
is "pursu[ing] the art of photography in Alabama."
Graves v. State, 258 Ala. 359, 362, 62 So. 2d 446, 448.
When appellant's photographers set up their equipment

DUNBAR-STANLEY STUDIOS v. ALABAMA.
537

541

Opinion of the Court.

in the local stores, posed the children brought to them
to be photographed, and operated their cameras, they
were engaged in an essentially local activity: the business
of providing photographers' services. The essentially
local character of the activity is emphasized by the intimate connection between appellant's photographers and
the local stores in which they set up their temporary
studios. Engaging in such local business may constitutionally be made subject to local taxation. E. g.,
Alaska v. Arctic Maid, 366 U. S. 199 (1961).
It could hardly be suggested that if J. C. Penney had
set up its own resident or transient photography studios,
using its own employees, such a photography business
would have been exempt from state licensing merely
because it chose to send the exposed film out of the State
for processing. The extraction of a natural resource
within a State is not immunized from state taxation
merely because, once extracted, the product will immediately be shipped out of the State for processing and
sale to consumers. Alaska v. Arctic Maid, supra, at
203-204; Oliver Iron Mining Co. v. Lord, 262 U. S. 172,
177-179 (1923). Cf. Toomer v. Witsell, 334 U. S. 385,
394-395 (1948). A fortiori, the fact that an intermediate processing stage takes place outside the State
before the pictures are returned to the State for final
delivery does not make the taking of the pictures-the
activity on which the tax was imposed-so inseparable
a part of the flow of interstate commerce as to be
immune from state license taxation. The mere substitution for J. C. Penney's own employees of a transient photographer who comes into Alabama from North
Carolina does not convert the essentially local activity
of photographing the subjects into an interstate activity
immune from the state privilege tax. Cf. Caskey Baking
Co. v. Virginia, 313 U. S. 117 (1941); Wagner v. City of
Covington, 251 U. S. 95 (1919).

OCTOBER TERM, 1968.
WHITE,

J., concurring.

393 U. S.

Nor is the tax invalid as a discrimination against interstate commerce. Alabama's tax is levied equally upon
all transient or traveling photographers whether their
travel is interstate or entirely within the State. On the
record before us, there is no basis for concluding that the
$5 per week tax on transient out-of-state photographers
is so disproportionate to the tax imposed on photographers with a fixed location ' as to bear unfairly on the
former. Cf. West Point Wholesale Grocery Co. v.
Opelika, 354 U. S. 390 (1957); Best & Co. v. Maxwell,
311 U. S. 454 (1940). In none of the cities for which
appellant's complaint gives the details of its activities
would the transient tax imposed on it have exceeded that
which a fixed-location photographer would have had to
pay to operate in the city.' For example, in 1965, five
visits are listed to Mobile, resulting in an assessed tax of
$25. This is equal to the flat rate tax which a photographer permanently located in the city would have had
to pay. Since, according to the complaint, the maximum
tax on appellant in any year for any city would be $25,6
the burden could hardly be prohibitive.
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE WHITE,

concurring.

Alabama taxes its transient photographers on a different, and often more burdensome, basis than those not
4 See n. 1, supra.

5Appellant asserts in its brief-but not in the complaint-that
the taxes assessed for its operations in Birmingham were almost
twice what a fixed-location photographer would have had to pay
for the same period. Even assuming that to be true, we are not
prepared to say that this relative burden is improper, given the
differences between the two ways of carrying on the business.
6 Allegedly, there were up to five visits per year to each city,
each visit extending from two to five days. The tax rate for a
transient photographer was $5 for each week of operation in a
locality.

DUNBAR-STANLEY STUDIOS v. ALABAMA.
537

WHITE,

543

J., concurring.

in that category. If firms operating precisely as appellant does, and mailing their film to a central point within
the State for development, are taxed as transient photographers then there is no unconstitutional discrimination
against interstate commerce. But if appellant is taxed
as a transient photographer because its films are sent for
development across a state line, then there is discrimination against interstate commerce. Although appellant contends that it is because of the interstate shipment
of films that the transient tax was applied, and although
the decision in Haden v. Olan Mills, Inc., 273 Ala. 129,
135 So. 2d 388 (1961), arguably supports that view, I do
not think that a sufficient showing has been made in
this record that Alabama has so applied its tax. Since
the burden of proof is on the appellant here, I join the
Court despite the uncertainty of the record on this score.

