ARSENAULT v. MASSACHUSETTS.
Per Curiam.

ARSENAULT v. MASSACHUSETTS.
ON

PETITION

FOR WRIT OF CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME

JUDICIAL COURT OF MASSACHUSETTS.

No. 187, Misc.

Decided October 14, 1968.

Petitioner pleaded guilty to murder at a probable-cause hearing
when he had no counsel. He testified at his trial (when he had
counsel), and denied guilt. On cross-examination his prior plea
was introduced. Petitioner was convicted and the State's highest
court affirmed over his contention that admission of the prior
plea was error. Based on White v. Maryland, 373 U. S. 59, decided
after petitioner's trial, petitioner sought post-conviction relief,
which that court denied on the ground that White was not retroactive. Held: White v. Maryland, which is indistinguishable in
principle from the present case, applies retroactively.
Certiorari granted; 353 Mass. 575, 233 N. E. 2d 730, reversed.

F. Lee Bailey for petitioner.
Elliot L. Richardson, Attorney General of Massachusetts, Howard M. Miller, Assistant Attorney General, and
Richard L. Levine, Deputy Assistant Attorney General,
for respondent.
PER CURIAM.

In February 1955 petitioner was arrested in connection with a recent homicide and attempted robbery. The
next morning at a probable-cause hearing, but unassisted
by counsel, he pleaded guilty to counts of murder and
assault with intent to rob. Six days later at his arraignment, and again unaided by counsel, he pleaded not guilty
to an indictment charging him with first-degree murder.
After being assigned counsel for trial he took the stand
in his own defense and again pleaded not guilty to the
indictment, asserting instead that he lacked the premeditation necessary for first-degree murder. On crossexamination, the district attorney questioned him about
his prior statements at the preliminary hearing and introduced his plea of guilty for the purpose of refreshing

OCTOBER TERM, 1968.
Per Curiam.

393 U. S.

his memory. The jury then returned a verdict of guilty
and imposed a sentence of death, since commuted to
life imprisonment. On direct review by the Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court, he assigned as error
the admission at trial of his prior plea. The court
rejected his claim by affirming the conviction.
In 1966 petitioner sought post-conviction relief from
the Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court on the ground
that our supervening decision in White v. Maryland, 373
U. S. 59, rendered his conviction void. While recognizing a "close similarity" between his case and White,
that court nonetheless reaffirmed the judgment below on
the ground that White was not retroactive. Petitioner
comes here by petition for a writ of certiorari. The
motion for leave to proceed in forma pauperis and the
petition for a writ of certiorari are granted.
In White v. Maryland an accused pleaded guilty when
arraigned at a preliminary hearing, and at that time had
no counsel to represent him. We held that Hamilton v.
Alabama, 368 U. S. 52, was applicable, as only the aid of
counsel could have enabled the accused to know all the
defenses available to him and to plead intelligently.
White v. Maryland is indistinguishable in principle from
the present case; and we hold that it is applicable here
although it was not decided until after the arraignment
and trial in the instant case.
The right to counsel at the trial (Gideon v. Wainwright,
372 U. S. 335); on appeal (Douglasv. California,372 U. S.
353); and at the other "critical" stages of the criminal
proceedings (Hamilton v. Alabama, supra) have all been
made retroactive, since the "denial of the right must almost invariably deny a fair trial." * See Stovall v.
Denno, 388 U. S. 293, 297.
Reversed.
*For the distinction drawn between the right-to-counsel cases and
those arising under the Fourth and Fifth Amendments, see also
Tehan v. Shott, 382 U. S. 406, 416.

